Billionaire investor Bill Ackman said his activist fund spent “an enormous amount of time working on” a potential investment in General Electric Co. before GE announced the sale of most of its real estate assets in April, and concluded it “wasn’t cheap enough.”

Bill Ackman. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg

Fellow activist Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund Management disclosed Monday a $2.5 billion stake in GE and publicly released an 81-slide presentation urging Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt to more aggressively sell units, trim costs and boost margins.

“I think Nelson’s correct, I think the direction GE is heading is correct,” Ackman said Tuesday at Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit in New York, in an interview with Stephanie Ruhle. “GE is actually an extremely well-operated company, but it’s a company that’s been an absolute failure in terms of the way they’ve allocated capital.”

Ackman cited GE’s acquisition of broadcaster NBC, its venture into oil and gas, and its detour into banking with its finance division as examples of where “they’ve not done a good job with capital generated by the core” businesses. That money would have better rewarded shareholders if used to grow its core businesses and buy back stock, he said.

“A lot of very talented CEOs have come out of GE,” Ackman said. “GE is one of the best training programs for running a business, I think it’s been a terrible place to learn how to invest money.

‘‘Immelt was handed a very, very highly valued company at the time he became CEO,’’ Ackman said. ‘‘When taking on a CEO job, make sure your stock’s not overvalued.’’ Immelt became CEO of GE in 2001, succeeding Jack Welch.

Ackman said his Pershing Square Capital Management is ‘‘probably not’’ going to follow Peltz into GE, but Ackman thinks ‘‘Nelson’s on to something, and I think GE appears to have gotten religion.’’

Mondelez Stake

Pershing Square recently disclosed it had amassed about 7.5 percent of snack-maker Mondelez International Inc., another company Peltz targeted before him, and where Peltz now has a board seat.

‘‘We’re both big shareholders, he’s on the board, he has access to information we don’t have, but I think our thesis is fairly similar,” Ackman said. “I think he sees the same operating-margin improvement potential, I think he sees the same business quality potential that we see.”

Ackman typically buys large stakes in a handful of big companies and agitates for changes and transactions. The fund’s holdings include drugmaker Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc., animal-health company Zoetis Inc., Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. and Air Products & Chemicals Inc. He is also waging an aggressive short campaign against Herbalife Ltd. and suing the U.S. government over ownership of mortgage backers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

A year ago, a public fund called Pershing Square Holdings Ltd. began trading in Amsterdam, providing a public security that mirrors Pershing Square’s hedge fund holdings.