Apple Pay is finally coming to Starbucks' U.S. stores by year-end, more than a year after Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) launched its mobile wallet. But coffee drinkers might stick with Starbucks' own app to earn points and perks through a loyalty program.

Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX) says its mobile-wallet app, introduced in 2010, has 16 million active users. Starbucks says it garners more than 19% of U.S. revenue from mobile payments.

Apple's mobile-payments service will be available only at some Starbucks locations by year-end, but it's expected to reach 7,500 company-owned stores in 2016.

Starbucks did not respond to an IBD request for information as to whether customers would earn loyalty points by using Apple Pay.

Starbucks' mobile wallet, a barcode-based payment app, enables customers to pay with a swipe of their mobile phone.

Apple Pay, introduced in September 2015 as part of Apple's iPhone 6 launch, uses near-field communications (NFC), a short-range wireless technology, to send data to payment readers. But analysts say only 20% or so of U.S. retail locations have NFC-equipped sales terminals.

The lack of loyalty programs tied to Apple Pay has been one drawback to its slow start, analysts say. A Bloomberg report says Apple Pay accounts for only 1% of all retail transactions in the U.S.

Apple in June said it would support some retailers' frequent-buyer/loyalty rewards cards. Checkout terminals need to be upgraded to NFC technology at some of those retailers.

For retailers, it's better that Apple isn't offering its own incentives, such as letting iPhone users rack up iTunes store points, analysts say.

Seattle-based Starbucks says its U.K. stores have been accepting Apple Pay for several months.

Google's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) mobile-payment app also has been slow to gain traction. And a retail consortium backed by Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) has been delayed in rolling out its mobile payment app.

Smartphone maker Samsung Electronics () introduced its mobile-payment system in late September. Chinese hackers reportedly breached the computer systems of payment startup LoopPay, which Samsung acquired to run its system.

Apple stock was up 2% in afternoon trading in the stock market today. Starbucks stock was up a fraction.

Follow Reinhardt Krause on Twitter @IBD_RKrause.