Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) executives unveiled new versions of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus at the Apple event in San Francisco, California

• Apple unveils new iPhones at event in San Francisco • CEO Tim Cook sets sights on the living room • Apple (Swiss: AAPL.SW - news) launches the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus • Apple unveils iPad Pro with bigger screen and 'Apple Pencil' • Apple launches Apple TV, the 'future of television' • Apple's iPhone event - as it happened • Key points from Apple's biggest event in years • Telegraph guide to the 500 must-have apps

= Summary =

Okay, that's it. After 32 hours and 45 minutes of Apple coverage, we're going to bring this to a close.

The new iPhones are relatively incremental upgrades, but 3D Touch could turn out to be an integral feature for years to come - remember the 4s introduced Siri and the 5s was the first with Touch ID. The upgraded camera is a welcome addition, and there are some other minor features that will undoubtedly be enough to convince a lot of people to upgrade.

Apple TV? I think we'll have to wait and see on that front, but Apple tends to have more hits than misses, and I suspect there's a lot more to come from the technology in the next few years.

A lot of the fun last night came from the enormous iPad Pro and its crazy $99 Apple Pencil, which apparently 79pc of you aren't interested in . But business users and creative types are probably going to love it.

Anyway, thanks for reading, and for your comments, and don't forget to check out all the rest of our iPhone coverage here .

= 16.30 =

The people over at uSwitch have got in touch with some data on what people think about last night.

Here are some of the key stats *56pc say the iPhone 6s Plus is not worth the extra money, while 28.8pc say it is. *The best feature of the new iPhones is apparently its stronger frame and screen, which 26.8pc say is their favourite aspect. *78pc say a longer battery life is among the things they want most from their smartphone. Others want an anti shatter screen and "Wi-Fi charging". *Most people aren't too impressed with Apple Pencil - a few say it's a good addition, but most think it's too expensive and not that useful. = 15.00 =

3pm - it's quiz time. Should you buy the iPhone 6s? Find out below...

= 14.00 =

Unimpressed with the 6s? We've rounded up the best Android alternatives on the market right now .

Although if emergency selfie mode hasn't won you over, then what's the matter with you?

= 12.30 =

Remember when Steve Jobs said: "Nobody wants a stylus?" He did, and now Apple has one, although it's not called a stylus! And it costs $99! You couldn't make it up.

Anyway, if you don't remember, here's Steve Jobs saying it:

= 11.10 =

We promised you more on the Apple TV, and here it is: You can read Rhiannon Williams' first impressions from her hands-on last night .

My take: This is very much a wait and see. Apple is letting the developer community in, but do people want to use lots of TV apps like they do with the iPhone? I guess we won't really find out until the apps start emerging - who would have imagined Uber, Snapchat or Instagram before the iPhone came out?

= 10.45 =

Our friends over at Telegraph Luxury have the lowdown on the Hermès Apple Watch .

I have to say, if I was to wear an Apple Watch, and price wasn't an issue, I'd probably go with this one. The strap's nice but the custom watch faces look really classy.

It (Other OTC: ITGL - news) starts at £1,000...

= 10.15 =

We also have a run-through in pictures of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus to check out here . It includes this gem from Craig Federighi

= 10.05 =

Here's a gif of those animated backgrounds.

= 09.40 =

One of the big demos of the iPad Pro was using Adobe's image-editing software to edit a headshot of a model.

Photoshop was used to edit a photo of the woman so that she appeared to be smiling more. This hasn't gone down too well online, to say the least.

Helena Horton rounds up the reaction .

= 09.15 =

Here's the front page of our business section today:

= 08.30 =

Here's Rhiannon Williams' full hands on with the new iPhones.

3D Touch is apparently pretty impressive in person, and the Rose Gold colour looks nice, while the camera upgrade was long needed.

= 07.55 =

So what do we all think of that Apple Pencil? $99 seems pretty steep, no matter how soothing Sir Jony Ive's overtones are in this video. Some of the effects on it are pretty impressive though.

Twitter (Xetra: A1W6XZ - news) isn't impressed:

= 07.08 =

And here are some of Rhiannon's thoughts on the new iPhones. We'll have more with you shortly, just don't call it an incremental upgrade...

During a release cycle many would have dismissed as fallow, Apple have actually managed to come up trumps - using more resistant, resilient materials, introducing another colour option to widen the model’s appeal, sticking to the so-far-so-successful phablet sizing convention, finally giving the camera a much-needed boost and rolling out some genuinely useful features.

The iPhone 5s was remarkably better than the 5, and with the 6s, the company appears to have capitalised on what propelled the 6 to become their best-selling iPhone to date. One thing’s for sure - the iPhone 6s is no step backwards.

= 06.45 =

Rhiannon's in San Francisco, and has been playing with the Apple TV. We'll have her full hands-on with you shortly, but here's a sneak peek:

In a way, Apple TV gets the short end of the stick when it comes to events like this, as people are inevitably bewitched by the glamour of a new phone more than they’re drawn to the more practical, homely appeal of a new TV box.

But should Apple launch its much-rumoured TV streaming service early next year, it has the potential to really make an impact, as I’ve written before. There’s no doubt the fourth-generation box, its interface, Siri integration and App Store is a dramatic and hearty improvement on its predecessor, and that alone is worth keeping an eye on.

= 06.17 =

Morning. Still with us? Apple invited Anthony Sadler and Spencer Stone, two of the Americans who apprehended the Paris train shooter last month, to their event last night. Both Tim Cook and Eddy Cue have been tweeting about it:

= 05.29 =

So, anyone remember what Steve Jobs said in 2010 when handed an iPad? Yup. "If you see a stylus, they blew it.” Which is presumably why they are calling it a pencil.

= 04.38 =

Aha, here we go (in case you wondered what a Taco emoji might look like)

= 04.36 =

I'm told The Telegraph system blows up if we try to put an emoji in the live blog... but anyway, I'm inclined to agree:

= 03.20 =

Apple shares ended the official trading day down slightly less than two percent at $110.15, and danced around that price in after-market trades. Analysts seemed to think it was business as usual, rather than a game-changing moment. As Brian Blau, an analyst with Gartner (NYSE: IT - news) , told AFP:

Apple did the typical good job at the event. Overall, I don't think it is going to push the needle for Apple in a good or a bad direction. These are great devices and cool features.

= 02.22 =

To tuck in or not tuck in - another big question of the day:

= 02.12 =

Another popular announcement from earlier is the 10 hour battery claim for the new iPhone - although there were a couple of skeptics:

= 01.02 =

There's a lot of chat on Twitter about the new 'emergency selfie' feature:

= 00.36 =

= 00.25 =

One Republic meet one of their biggest fans, Tim Cook, after performing at the Apple launch - they seem impressed with the new iPhone:

= 23.36 =

Following announcements from Three and Vodafone earlier this evening that they will be offering the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus on their networks, EE has now confirmed that it too will be carrying the new devices. That means we're just waiting on an announcement from O2.

= 23. 33 =

Bloomberg has published an epic feature on how Apple built 3D Touch, which you can read in full here . In an extract, journalist Josh Tyrangiel writes:

Apple design projects have no formal start and no predetermined finish. Months of wrong turns and scenic routes are common, and there are countless schemes going on simultaneously. Which is why no one really remembers when the group rallied around adding 3D to the iPhone, only that they kept asking: What if, instead of swiping through apps or routing all of your browsing through the Grand Central station of the home screen, you could press the glass in one function and reveal a shortcut to another? And what if the phone understood this desire based entirely on changes in the pressure you applied?