Market report: London's largest stocks enjoy a 2.5pc rise after hints of a US interest rate rise this year

ARM Holdings (LSE: ARM.L - news) was the biggest riser in a buoyant London market as investors bought into the prospect of its computing chips making even more money from the firm’s relationship with Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) .

On the day the new iPhone 6 handsets went on sale, analysts at Exane noted rumours that Apple would be using more powerful processors in its next models, meaning higher royalties for ARM.

Shares (Berlin: DI6.BE - news) in the firm, which have followed Apple’s march lower over the summer as Chinese demand came under scrutiny, rose almost 6pc or 55.5p to 982p.

The FTSE 100 index of large London stocks bounced 2.5pc higher to close at 6,109.01, spending the whole day in positive territory after hints from the Federal Reserve chairman Janet Yellen overnight that the US central bank would raise interest rates before the end of the year.

“In an apparent effort to reverse some of the damage created by the Fed’s dovish message last week, Yellen gave a more balanced speech,” said analysts at Societe Generale (Swiss: 519928.SW - news) .

Johnson Matthey (LSE: JMAT.L - news) was among the biggest risers, up 4.8pc to £25.14. The chemicals maker recovered almost all of the ground it has lost this week in the wake of Volkswagen’s emissions data rigging, although it remains 26pc down in the year to date.

The firm makes catalysts and other emissions controls for vehicle engines, making it vulnerable to a shift away from diesel, although analysts at Redburn said the market had overestimated the fallout from the VW scandal.

The mid-cap property firm Quintain was one of several companies getting a boost from takeover activity. The Wembley landlord saw a 7.6pc jump in its shares to 141.5p after its takeover suitor Lone Star bowed to pressure to raise its bid to 141p per share. The larger firm had been facing opposition from the hedge fund Elliott, which built a 14pc stake in Quintain while calling for a higher price.

Also enjoying a bid bounce was Imperial Tobacco (LSE: IMT.L - news) , which rose 49p to £35.14 to take its weekly gain past 5pc and adding to a 12pc increase over the past month. British American Tobacco joined in the rally with an 87.7p rise to £36.23 on hopes that the London-listed firms might come into play as Japan Tobacco (Other OTC: JAPAF - news) searches for scale.

SABMiller (Amsterdam: MI8.AS - news) , which is being chased by the Budweiser maker AB Inbev , rose 2.4pc to £35.88, broadly in line with the rest of the market. AB Inbev has until October 14 to make a formal takeover offer for the £56bn brewing giant.

Synergy Health (Other OTC: SYHEF - news) , a takeover target in the FTSE 250, gained 42pc to close at £22.44 after a US court cleared the way for a tie-up with Steris (NYSE: STE - news) , despite competition complaints from the Federal Trade Commission.

Another strong riser was the mid-cap equipment hire company HSS rose strongly, gaining 2.6pc to 60p, although the reason for its gain was the abrupt departure of its chief executive following a series of profit warnings.

Shares in HSS have fallen 70pc since their market debut in February, leading to Chris Davies’ resignation.

However, mining groups were left behind during yesterday’s rally, with Glencore (Amsterdam: GX8.AS - news) , under pressure from tumbling commodity prices, down a further 1.4pc to 97.2p. Shareholders continued to exit the company despite a recently-announced equity placing and debt reduction plan that was intended to reassure investors about its financial stability.

The Aim-listed veterinary services group CVS was one of the biggest small-cap gains, soaring more than 11pc to 705p after its acquisition of 29 surgeries produced a 35pc rise in profits .