Weak Chinese data published over the weekend did little to taper risk appetite, as European shares rose in early trade

European shares inched higher in early morning trade, despite a choppy trading session in Asia.

Chinese data released over the weekend pointed to further signs the world’s second largest economy is contracting, after industrial production failed to meet expectations , coming in at 6.1pc.

Despite recording a weekly gain of 1.24pc , Britain’s benchmark index closed in the red on Friday, as supermarkets dragged the FTSE lower after Lidl announced plans to move into central London, in a bid to shake off its discount image.

However, the FTSE 100 bounced back in early trade, jumping 1.1pc higher to 6,183.07, led higher by Arm Holdings (LSE: ARM.L - news) and mining stocks. Traders in the City said an article on Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) by Barron's, which suggests the new iPhone plan will see shares rally as much as 50pc, helped Arm become the FTSE favourite. The chip designer, which makes products for Apple, leapt 3.1pc to 962.5p.

European bourses also climbed higher with the CAC in Paris and the German DAX both up 0.8pc, while the Spanish IBEX rose 0.7pc.

Mike van Dulken, of Accendo Markets said: “The positive opening call is despite a largely negative session in Asia to start the new week following another bout of moderate US gains on Friday as the odds of a Fed Rate hike lengthen”.

Overnight in Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index closed 2.7pc lower , while the Nikkei finished 1.6pc in the red.

Ahead of a pivotal week for the financial markets, US shares closed in positive territory on Friday with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 0.6pc and the S&P 500 0.5pc higher.

While investors await the Federal Reserve’s decision on interest rates on Thursday, Rebecca O’Keeffe, of Interactive Investor, said it was “too close to call”.

“While events in China and emerging markets have created complications, the US economy is still growing strongly, with conditions in the labour market heading firmly in the right direction.

"Should the Fed hold rates, it is likely that markets will breathe a sigh of relief for now,” Ms O’Keeffe added. * US interest rate rise could trigger global debt crisis (Other OTC: UBGXF - news)