Nike (NYSE:NKE) could announce an expansion of its partnership with Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) in addition to outlining a path toward $40 billion in Nike brand revenue for fiscal 2019, says one analyst ahead of the sportswear giant's investor day on Wednesday.

Macquarie analyst Laurent Vasilescu told IBD that he doesn't expect any hardware announcements from Nike (the company reportedly laid off much of its FuelBand development team last year), but there could be word of a possible expansion of — or at least more color on — its ongoing partnership with the Apple Watch maker.

Nike has notably kept mum about its digital initiatives, in stark contrast to Under Armour (NYSE:UA), which touted 150 million total registered users and 60 million active users at its investor day last month. At last count in August 2014, Nike's digital community, Nike+, was 30 million strong.

As smart technology and wearables like Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) and the Apple Watch edge into the fitness spotlight, investors could hear more about connected apparel and smart clothing, said Vasilescu.

While Under Armour was relatively muted on its women's campaign at its investor event, Vasilescu expects to hear more about Nike's women's initiative on Wednesday.

"It is baffling for Nike's sheer scale — only $5.7 billion of Nike brand revenues were driven by the women's category in FY15," he wrote in a Thursday note. Total revenue in fiscal 2015 was $30.6 billion.

Macquarie rates the stock outperform with a 138 price target. Vasilescu anticipates that Nike will guide for $40 billion in total revenue for fiscal 2019. At its last investor day two years ago, Nike announced a fiscal 2017 forecast of $36 billion. Wall Street analysts expect $35.7 billion in 2017.

Nike shares gapped up 9% on Sept. 25 following estimate-beating fiscal Q1 results the day before, with earnings rising 23% to $1.34 a share and revenue growing 5% to $8.4 billion.

Analysts highlighted the quarter's 17% rise in future orders, with D.A. Davidson analysts noting that the quarter yielded Nike's "strongest futures orders since 3Q12 and EPS upside, suggesting NKE's business momentum continues to improve."

The firm upgraded Nike on Thursday to buy from neutral with a price target of 140, calling Nike's potential for earnings growth "as promising as ever."

The sportswear maker had an EPS compound annual growth rate of 9% from fiscal 2009-2014, D.A. Davidson analysts said, adding that several factors have held back earnings growth, such as investments and "reluctance to fully utilize the brand's pricing power (choosing to gain share instead)."

"We believe NKE's upcoming analyst day on October 14th will provide further confidence in its long-term growth strategy," wrote D.A. Davidson's Andrew Burns. "We expect a deep dive into NKE's strategy will yield confidence in the model and further justify its premium valuation multiple."

Nike shares closed up 1.2% to 126.43 in the stock marketMonday. Under Armour finished 1% higher. Apple dipped 0.5%, and Fitbit rose 2.1%.

Follow Elaine Low on Twitter @IBD_ELow.

RELATED:

No Shoe-In: Can Nike, Under Armour Sales Jump Higher?

Under Armour Aims High To Close Gap On Nike, Adidas

Why Under Armour Wants To Be The Facebook Of Fitness

Nike Shares Jump After Strong Q1 Earnings Beat.