New (KOSDAQ: 160550.KQ - news) generation of iPhones include '3D Touch' technology, an improved camera and a new rose gold colour

Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) has revealed a new generation of iPhones, featuring pressure-sensitive touchscreen technology and a new "rose gold" colour, at an event in San Francisco .

Chief executive Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 6s and larger iPhone 6s Plus to the crowd inside the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, saying “no product is more about innovation than the iPhone.”

The advanced "3D Touch" technology within the new iPhones will provide the user with tactile feedback, and will be used to create shortcuts between menus, such as opening web links from within text messages without the need to exit and open the internet browser.

The Apple Watch , introduced early this year, was the first product to feature Force Touch technology, which triggers new menus depending on the pressure the wearer applies to the screen. The company is also rolling the feature out across its MacBook and MacBook Pro lines.

The new iPhone models, which will go on sale on September 25, sport an improved iSight rear-facing camera capable of shooting 4K video, up to 12MP from the predecessors' 8MP and front-facing 5MP lens. A new feature named "Live Photos" creates a brief animation by extending the captured moment, stitching several frames together.

The new models will ship in three versions: 16GB, 64GB and 128GB. The iPhone 6s in the UK will start at £539, going up to £619 and £699 respectively, while the iPhone 6s Plus will start from £619, £699 and £789. Both phones keep the sizing conventions of predecessor models the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, at 4.7-inches and 5.5-inches diagonally.

The animated backgrounds first debuted on the Apple Watch will also be a new feature, with example videos shown in the presentation including Chinese koi carp. Both smartphones sport A9 64-bit chips.

The event also saw the introduction of a new rose gold model, which has been interpreted as a play for eastern markets following Cook's admission that Apple is influenced by the colour preferences of desirable markets. The new colour joins the gold, silver and space grey shade roster, and will be manufactured from a new stronger aluminum alloy.

The new models, which Cook called most advanced smartphones in the world, will ship with latest operating system iOS 9, announced at this summer’s Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC).

iOS 9 contains numerous updates including a more powerful version of digital assistant Siri, and improved battery life by up to one hour. It (Other OTC: ITGL - news) will be available to download from September 16.

iPhone sales represent a huge part of Apple's business, selling 47.5 million units in the three months to June - six every second.

In the UK, Apple is expected to account for a 32.2 per cent share of smartphone users this year, compared to 30.8 per cent last year, according to eMarketer.

The pair will be available to pre-order from September 12, and will be available to buy from September 25.

Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing Phil Schiller talked the crowd through a new, larger iPad named the iPad Pro , sized 12.9-inches diagonally - larger than the recently released 12-inch MacBook. It contains 5.6 million pixels - more than a 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display - which Schiller said was the most advanced display the company had ever built, with a 10 hour battery life. He claimed it would be faster than 80 per cent of portable CPUs shipped in the last 12 months.

New iPad Pro accessories smart keyboard and sensor-packed stylus Apple Pencil position the iPad Pro as a business and art-focused PC replacement, which will be available to buy from November.

Apple also announced it had collaborated with luxury brand Hermès to create new Apple Watch bands and watch faces using traditional iconography, yellow gold and rose gold-coloured Sport models and several new straps (Other OTC: UBGXF - news) .