Company says it is on track to beat the 10m iPhones pre-ordered over the first weekend last year, and that it is working to catch up

The Apple Store will not dispatch new orders of the iPhone 6s Plus for up to four weeks in the UK after apparently strong demand for the latest model in the opening weekend of pre-orders.

The company's online store in the UK is currently listing a wait time of three to four weeks for the 6s Plus, the larger model of Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) 's latest smartphones, two days after pre-orders opened.

The smaller model, the iPhone 6s, is still listed as being available from September 25 , the official date that the new iPhones go on sale.

That is except for the new "rose gold" model, new orders of which will be dispatched in two to three weeks. Apple is introduced the pink-ish hue for the first time this year, in what is seen as an attempt to appeal to customers in China.

Since the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus do not go on sale until Friday September 25, this is an effective delay of around two weeks for the 6s Plus models and one week for the rose gold iPhone 6s.

"Customer response to iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus has been extremely positive and preorders this weekend were very strong around the world," Apple said.

"We are on pace to beat last year's 10 million unit first-weekend record when the new iPhones go on sale September 25.

"As many customers noticed, the online demand for iPhone 6s Plus has been exceptionally strong and exceeded our own forecasts for the preorder period. We are working to catch up as quickly as we can, and we will have iPhone 6s Plus as well as iPhone 6s units available at Apple retail stores when they open next Friday."

The iPhone 6 Plus - last year's larger handset - also sold out online over the pre-order weekend in 2014, with customers facing similar wait times .

Although it is unclear how many iPhones were made available through the Apple (Swiss: AAPL.SW - news) Store, Daniel Ives, technology specialist at FBR Capital said the wait times suggested strong demand, with pre-order levels in China looking particularly strong.

"The wait time of iPhone 6s Plus in China is already running three to four weeks, and two to three weeks for the 6s," he said. "The US and UK also looked strong on initial pre-order data, showing wait times of roughly three to four weeks for 6s Plus with shorter wait times for 6s depending on model/carrier.

"While there are still unknowns about inventory levels, we note that China demand in particular looks very strong out of the gates and is a positive sign that the white-hot momentum out of this region shows no signs of abating despite macro headwinds out of China."

Apple unveiled the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in a blaze of product announcements last week , which also included a new Apple TV and the bigger iPad Pro.

Customers will be able to order iPhones for in-store collection, or possibly from their networks rather than Apple directly, if they want to get their hands on the devices earlier.

The new devices feature a new "3D Touch" technology, as well as an improved camera and upgraded processor.