* A look at the day ahead from European Economics and Politics Editor Mark John and EMEA Markets Editor Mike Dolan. The views expressed are their own.

LONDON, Sept 8 (Reuters) - Barring surprises, the Bank of England should announce it is keeping interest rates on hold at midday, a prospect made more likely by data this week showing a fall in July manufacturing activity and a sharp widening of the trade deficit. The latest Reuters poll shows the Bank is widely expected to wait until early next year to hike, with the majority betting on a 25-basis-point rise to 0.75 percent before April.

TV pre-election debates can be high-risk for candidates but Greece's one last night turned out to be a dull affair with the main parties sticking to their scripts and neither of the two main candidates landing any major body blows. The question now before the Sept 20 vote is whether conservative leader Evangelos Meimarakis can maintain his recent momentum and push past incumbent Alexis Tsipras by convincing Greeks he is the safe pair of hands that will limit the bail-out pain.

On migrants, Poland and Spain have come round to the idea of accepting refugees under the EU plan set out by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker yesterday, but the Czech Republic and Slovakia are among those still resisting. EU officials now say the executive is ready to push the Council of member states to over-ride any deadlock by forcing a vote - something the bloc prefers to avoid because it shines a light on its divisions.

Very weak French industrial output data for July have just come in - a drop of 0.8 percent that outdoes even the most pessimistic of analyst forecasts - that underline once more how much the euro zone's second-largest economy is struggling to take off again.

MARKETS

Wednesday's peculiar market rally now looks more like the exception than the new rule. The sheer volatility of pricing was captured by last night's U-turn on Wall Street, which flipped from early gains of more than 1 percent to losses of more than 1 percent as Treasury market attention turned squarely to next week's Fed decision, oil plunged again on weak EIA forecasts, Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) 's new product launch underwhelmed and Brazil lost its investment grade credit rating from S&P. Asian bourses similarly turned tail, with Tokyo knocking 2.5 percent off its bizarre near-8 percent gain yesterday, and Shanghai and other emerging Asia bourses fell hard as well. The drumbeat of new economic news at least showed little reason for a market turnaround - a pork-driven upside surprise in Chinese August CPI offset by deep contraction in factory gate prices.

Brent's return to sub-$48 will keep deflation angst alive, with New Zealand overnight becoming the latest central bank to cut interest rates. Decent demand at the U.S (Other OTC: UBGXF - news) . Treasury 10-year auction at least kept yields there under wraps, and both that and the oil price have kept bonds bid generally this morning. Fed liftoff has now slipped to October at least in many minds, although the latest data on U.S. job openings on Wednesday showed just how tight the labour market there is getting. The dollar has slipped back in line with Treasury yields, however, and euro/dollar has reclaimed $1.12. Euro stocks are shaping up for early losses of about 1 percent, in line with global markets.

New Zealand's dollar fell 2 percent against its U.S. counterpart after the RBNZ cut interest rates and said more policy easing was possible.

Among emerging market movers: Turkish lira falls after fresh unrest hits the country's east ahead of November 1 elections and ruling AK Party officials admit the political instability could hurt once-impressive growth. Interest rates are likely to be held unchanged in Serbia, which has cut rates by 625 basis points since April.

Some will be focusing on European companies with exposure to Brazil such as Anheuser-Busch InBev and British American Tobacco, after Standard & Poor's downgraded Brazil's credit rating to junk grade on Wednesday.

German utility E.ON is indicated to open 2.5 percent lower after saying it will retain responsibility for the remaining operation and dismantling of its nuclear generating capacity in Germany and not transfer it to Uniper.

Among other stock movers Credit Agricole (Swiss: ACA.SW - news) is nearing an agreement to pay about $900 million to resolve investigations into whether it illegally moved funds through the United States for blacklisted individuals and countries such as Sudan and Iran; Total plans to operate the delayed coking unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery at reduced production levels until a crane is repaired; Lufthansa flights returned to normal on Thursday after a two-day strike by pilots at the German airline over cost cuts and pay; a New York state regulator has sought information from banks including Credit Suisse Group on potential manipulation of U.S. Treasury auctions. (Editing by Hugh Lawson)