With car makers facing tough competition from the likes of Google (Xetra: A0B7FY - news) and Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) , the industry now has to deal with a scandal

Most of the time, conspiracy theories are just that: a farrago of nonsense dreamt up by brainwashed, embittered activists who don’t understand that most problems are caused by incompetence and ignorance, not deliberate malice. Yet just as a broken clock is proved right twice a day, even the most outlandish of theories can, on occasion, turn out to be true. That does not make the scandal engulfing Volkswagen (Other OTC: VLKAF - news) , until now one of the world’s most respected companies, any less shocking.

VW, which also makes Audi (Other OTC: AUDVF - news) and Seat, is the epitome of German car maker respectability; yet it has just been accused of deliberately deceiving regulators seeking to measure toxic emissions from its cars . In a plot that could have come straight out of a dystopian Hollywood movie, the US authorities say they have found that the cars were fitted with “defeat devices”: software that switches off emission controls when cars are being driven by consumers, only turning them on when they are undergoing emissions tests.

These are dramatic claims: the alleged behaviour was far, far worse even than that seen during the Libor scandal, which saw a few traders attempt to manipulate the interbank lending rate. The bankers made money for themselves but did not really achieve much: the conduct of the handful of people involved was disgraceful, but their actions probably had roughly zero net effect on the cost of mortgages or commercial loans over time.

By contrast, the VW allegations imply a deliberate and coordinated attempt by the car maker to con the authorities on a massive scale and, in theory, to sell cars that did not meet environmental standards. That is not the way any company or business should behave. It (Other OTC: ITGL - news) begs the obvious question: who knew about this at VW? Did the top bosses know and if not, why not? After all, the dodgy software was loaded onto half a million cars; it is hard to see how a few rogue juniors could be blamed for this.

Volkswagen has apologised profusely for betraying the trust of its consumers and announced an investigation; it could now be hit by fines ranging from at least $1bn to $18bn, and all sorts of other possible woes, including criminal prosecutions. The US is now investigating other car makers; the financial markets, which knocked as much as 23pc off the value of VW’s shares , are terrified that the scandal could yet spread further to other manufacturers. The German authorities are as livid as they are shell-shocked: VW is one of the country’s most important players, and the state of Lower Saxony owns 20pc of its voting shares. Martin Winterkorn, Volkswagen’s chief executive, had already been under intense pressure; he should now consider resigning his position.

It is not just VW’s shareholders that should be angry about this : corporate scandals are inevitably bad news for those of us who support free markets. They are grist to the mill of the anti-capitalist left, who love nothing more than seeing companies being accused of breaking the law, while, of course, turning a blind eye to scandals in the public sector. Anti-corporate socialists ignore the fact that human beings are fallible and behave badly, on occasion, regardless of the economic system or degree of state control; instead, they will use this latest claim of corporate malfeasance to further their false, anti-market narrative.

The truth is that advocates of capitalism believe in the rule of law and are firm believers in its strict enforcement; those of us who believe that people should be allowed to trade freely and unhindered by endless state diktats are also the first to argue that anybody who deceives, lies or commits fraud should be punished. At the heart of being a free-marketeer is being realistic about human nature.

It will be interesting to see whether the US authorities treat VW in a way commensurate with the way it has treated General Motors (NYSE: GM - news) and other US companies; or whether this turns into a BP-style xenophobic attack . The Americans have form when it comes to being much harsher to overseas companies than to their own. General Motors has forked out $900m to settle a probe accusing it of failing to recall cars with faulty ignitions linked to more than 100 deaths; it is hard to see how VW’s bill will not end up being many times greater, though nobody has died.

All of this comes at a critical time for the incumbent car industry, which faces a historic threat from technology firms small and large. For European and American car makers, the looming onslaught from Apple (Swiss: AAPL.SW - news) , Google, Tesla and the rest will prove to be several orders of magnitude more dangerous even than the rise of the Japanese car makers in the 1970s and 1980s.

Cars once contained zero electronics; today they are stuffed full of them. Eventually, cars will become computers on wheels. The incumbent manufacturers are very good at many things, but they will find it extremely tough to compete with the technology, vast pockets and design know-how of the likes of Apple.

The US giant is planning to launch its first proper electric car in 2019, according to the Wall Street Journal ; it already has hundreds of people working on the project and will be adding many more. If Apple is truly serious about its latest project, the established car makers should be quaking in their boots. Only a fool would bet against Tim Cook and his team: they know better than anybody else on Earth how to enter a new market, transform it and then dominate it.

The VW scandal continues to grow; it was truly the last thing the embattled, incumbent automotive industry needed.

allister.heath@telegraph.co.uk