Warren Buffett, the so-called Sage of Omaha, didn't make the Harvard Business Review's top 100 CEOs list this year, while Martin Winterkorn, recently ousted as Volkswagen's (OTCPK:VLKAY) chief amid the diesel scandal, was No. 20.

The Harvard Business Review's annual list of the best performing CEOs in the world put Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRKB), at No. 101 — not because of his management skills but, in part, because of a low score for Berkshire's governance and social policies.

The Harvard Business Review and Sustainalytics, an investment research firm, compiled the list before Volkswagen admitted to using software in various diesel-engine models that thwarted emission tests.

Former Volkswagen Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn View Enlarged Image

This is the first year HBR added a measurement of each company's environmental, social and governance performance, which accounted for 20% of results. Traditionally, the rankings were based only on criteria like total shareholder returns and market capitalization.

Among the biggest changes on the list was Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) CEO Jeff Bezos, who plunged from No. 1 last year to No. 87 this year. HBR said that on purely financial metrics, Bezos still leads all other CEOs. But Amazon didn't score well on HBR's new social metrics scale, pulling his ranking down.

Berkshire Hathaway shares closed up 0.3% in Monday trading in the stock market today. Volkswagen's U.S.-listed shares climbed 7.7%. Amazon rose 2%.

Lars Rebien Sorensen, CEO of Danish drugmaker Novo Nordisk (NYSE:NVO), is No. 1 on the list. The 33-year Novo Nordisk veteran has headed the leading maker of drugs to treat diabetes and other diseases since 2000.

HBR said Sorensen's top ranking partly reflects the company's "deep engagement with social and environmental issues, which now factor into our calculations."

Novo Nordisk shares rose 2%.

No. 2 on the list is John Chambers, who stepped down this summer as head of networking equipment giant Cisco Systems (NASDAQ:CSCO). He assumed the post of executive chairman at Cisco. Cisco shares rose fractionally Monday.

Pablo Isla held the No. 3 spot. Isla has headed Spain-based apparel, footwear and fashion accessories maker Inditex for 10 years. Elmar Degenhart, head of German industrial company Continental, is No. 4.

Martin Sorrell, who is at the helm of London-based communications giant WPP, holds down the No. 5 spot. And No. 6 Stephen Luczo has been Seagate Technology's (NASDAQ:STX) CEO since 2009 after an earlier run as chief from 1998 to 2004.

No. 7 is Jon Fredrik Baksaas, head of Norway-based telecommunications company Telenor; No. 8 is George Scangos, chief at U.S.-based biotech drug giant Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB); No. 9 is Michael Wolf, who has led Sweden-based banking giant Swedbank for six years; and Fujio Mitarai, top executive at Japan-based office product maker Canon, is No. 10.

Follow James DeTar on Twitter @IBD_JDeTar and on Facebook.