Home of the Day Sponsor Listing The Ultimate Tahoe Escape In The Best Truckee Location - 7 Units Available At The Boulders

Enlarge Social video and games are the primary drivers behind iOS growth in China.

Google Play still rules when it comes to downloads, but when it comes to making money, Apple is king.



The iOS App Store’s revenue was 80 percent higher than Google Play in the third quarter of 2015, up from 70 percent higher in the second quarter, according to a new report out from App Annie. Apple’s surge is due to the brand’s popularity China.

Enlarge Social video and games are the primary drivers behind iOS growth in China.

Worldwide downloads were 90 percent higher on Google Play compared to the App Store in the third quarter, up from its earlier 85 percent in the prior quarter. Google’s growth is due to emerging markets like India, Indonesia and Vietnam, where Android devices can cost less than $50.

Get A.M. business scoops. Subscribe to SVBJ's free morning email newsletter.



China’s power

Chinese consumers are wild about the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s. The larger screens proved very popular in the country and China were a major reason the iPhone 6s saw record-breaking sales at the end of September.

While China is not the top country by revenue on the iOS App Store (the U.S. is still No. 1, with Japan No. 2), it is the country with the most downloads. China surpassed the U.S. in iOS downloads earlier this year and those download numbers have turned into increased revenues for the Cupertino-based company.

China led all countries in absolute growth in the third quarter in 2015 in terms of both iOS app downloads and revenue, per the report.

Social and games

Social video and games are the primary drivers behind iOS growth in China. Popular social video apps in the country include iCastShow, a lip syncing app, and MiaoPai, which is similar to Vine.

Games are also big money makers in the country. Tencent’s “The Legend of Mir 2” and “The King of Fighters’ 98 Ultimate Match” have proven quite popular, in addition to NetEase’s game “Fantasy Westward Journey.”

Aside from social and games, ride booking app Didi Dache saw strong growth during the quarter due to a battle with Uber.

Developers

While iOS apps are booming in China, App Annie advised developers to target new users at the lower-end of the market on Google Play. India was one of the three largest markets by downloads for both Facebook and WhatsApp in the third quarter. In addition, smartphone penetration in India is only 10-15 percent range, which App Annie noted means the country is ready for growth. In other Apple iOS news, the switch to the iOS 9 is still proving to be a bit of a hassle, this time for Facebook users. The Facebook’s iOS application is draining the battery life out of iPhones. When the app put into the background on an iPhone it should go into a dormant state. Instead the application continues to drain battery power from an iPhone, with some users reporting the app is consuming 15 percent of total battery life over a one-week period, per TechCrunch. Facebook has responded saying, ”We have heard reports of some people experiencing battery issues with our iOS app. We’re looking into this and hope to have a fix in place soon.”

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing The Ultimate Tahoe Escape In The Best Truckee Location - 7 Units Available At The Boulders