General Electric has been viewed as an attractive investment to own for decades. But that isn’t much help if you’ve held the stock for the past 14 years and have little to show for it.

Shares of General Electric Co. GE, +2.53% jumped 4.2% to $26.54 after Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP said it had purchased $2.5 billion worth of GE shares for a stake of about 1%.

Investors cheered the prospect of Peltz pushing GE into deeper cost-cutting, lightening up on its finance business and considering a more careful approach to acquisitions.

Also on Monday, GE said it would sell its corporate aircraft leasing portfolio to Jet Capital for $2.5 billion. That makes for $95 billion in financial asset sales this year.

A lost decade — and then some

Jeffrey Immelt took over as CEO on Sept. 7, 2001. From the day before that through last Friday, the company’s stock has returned minus 0.2%, with dividends reinvested, according to FactSet. That compares with a 133.6% return for the benchmark S&P 500 Index SPX, +1.66%

In April, I called General Electric a “very attractive long-term stock pick,” because Immelt’s sale of GE Capital’s various units, which is lowering the company’s liquidity risk.

The 123-year-old company’s profit from industrial segments rose 9% during the first quarter, a sign it would remain on a profitable path to offset the decline in earnings from the planned spinoff of Synchrony Financial SYF, -1.94% and additional sales of GE Capital businesses.

The virtual elimination of GE Capital will help the company escape close scrutiny by federal bank regulators, and it may also remove the stigma springing from its traditional reliance on wholesale liquidity. This reliance on the commercial-paper market to fund a huge loan portfolio blew up in the company’s face late in 2008. When liquidity dried up, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. covered $21.8 billion in GE commercial paper, and GE Capital registered for up to $126 billion in commercial-paper guarantees through the regulator’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.

The company hopes never to face this sort of liquidity crisis again. Meanwhile, Immelt has been sticking to his industrial knitting.

What Peltz wants

Peltz said in a press release Monday that Trian made the investment because GE “is undervalued and underappreciated by the market despite what we believe is a transformation that will allow its world-class industrial businesses to drive attractive shareowner returns.”

While complimenting GE for its transformation away from its lending businesses toward being much more of a pure-play industrial powerhouse, Trian said that it “has not asked GE for board representation but expects management to deliver on its commitments.”

Those commitments include the disposal of most of GE Capital.

GE’s shares closed at $25.47 Monday. Trian Chief Investment Officer and founding partner Ed Garden said the company “has significant long-term potential and that its implied target value per share, including dividends, could be $40 to $45 by the end of 2017 based on our view that GE can deliver EPS of at least $2.20 in 2018.” That implies quite a bit of upside potential in a relatively short time.

GE’s closing price on April 9, the day before my April article was written, was $25.73. The stock was down 1% since then through Friday’s close at $26.33, but the total return was 0.7% , with dividends reinvested. This isn’t very long, especially for a “long-term” stock pick, but that total return compares quite nicely to the 5.7% decline for the S&P 500 over the same period.

For the second quarter, GE’s operating earnings from industrial segments rose 18% from a year earlier to $2.62 billion, even though industrial sales were flat. The company said its combined industrial segment operating profit margin rose to 16.2% in the second quarter from 15.9% a year earlier.

So where’s the problem? Why would investors get excited by the presence of an activist investor when the company’s stock is outperforming the market?

One answer is that GE on Friday traded for 16.6 times the consensus 2016 earnings estimate of $1.53, among analysts polled by FactSet. It’s not a cheap stock, since its forward P/E is the same as that of the S&P 500 Index.

This is why investors are so impressed with the EPS and price targets provided by Trian’s Garden on Monday.

Even though GE appears to be on the right path, improving margins and industrial earnings, a boost of new ideas from Peltz might be a helpful catalyst for the stock — and a salve for the company’s long-suffering shareholders.

More from MarketWatch