Under Armour (NYSE:UA) COO and CFO Brad Dickerson, who has been with the company since 2004, will step down around February, just weeks after the athletic gear maker set an ambitious goal of nearly doubling revenue in three years.

Jefferies analyst Randal Konik said the announcement's "timing is not ideal," given the company's recent revenue guidance, according to a Tuesday note.

At Under Armour's investor day last month, the company said it's striving for $7.5 billion in revenue and $800 million in operating income by 2018. Konik called those targets "realistic" but said they left "minimal room for execution error."

But he still likes Under Armour's long-term prospects and maintained a hold rating on the stock with a 90 price target.

"While this is certainly a loss for the company, as Mr. Dickerson was involved in the company's robust growth over the last several years, we do not believe it poses any near-term disruption...." he said. "Further, we believe UA's existing management team is broad and deep, which should allow his responsibilities to be re-allocated in an orderly fashion."

Konik noted that the company's investments could pressure margins and that tough comparisons to earlier quarters could constrain the company's short-term earnings potential.

Under Armour shares finished down 2% at 101.30 in the stock market today. Rival Nike (NYSE:NKE), which holds an analyst day Wednesday amid speculation of an expanded Apple partnership, ended 0.5% lower.

Under Armour, though a distant second to Nike in athletic apparel and footwear, leads Nike in terms of fitness apps for use with Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) and the Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) Watch.

Dickerson is leaving Under Armour "to pursue another professional opportunity outside of the athletic performance industry," the company said.

"During his time at Under Armour, Brad has played an integral role in providing value for the company by building a strong team and demonstrating a core competency of accelerating growth, taking the company from pre-IPO to a multi-billion dollar global business," CEO Kevin Plank said in a statement.

Follow Bill Peters on Twitter @IBD_BPeters.