Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:

Bank of America — The bank earned 37 cents per share for its latest quarter, 4 cents above estimates, with revenue also above forecasts. BofA saw its legal expenses decrease substantially, while investment banking fees and home loan originations jumped.

Delta Air Lines — Delta reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.74 per share, beating estimates by 3 cents, with revenue very slightly above expectations. Delta's bottom line was helped by the drop in oil prices.

Jarden — The consumer products company is buying Visant Holding, the parent company of Jostens, for approximately $1.5 billion. Jostens is best known as a maker of class and championship rings, but also makes yearbooks, caps, gowns, and diplomas, among other school-related products.

PNC Financial — The bank beat estimates by 11 cents with quarterly profit of $1.90 per share, though revenue was slightly below Street forecasts. Net interest margin — a key measure of lending profitability — unexpectedly fell during the quarter.

BlackRock — The asset manager earned an adjusted $5 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates of $4.57, with revenue also above Street predictions. Long term net inflows rose to $35 billion from $29 billion a year earlier, and the iShares ETF business took in $23.3 billion in new investments.

JPMorgan Chase — The bank reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.32 per share, 5 cents below estimates. Revenue came in slightly below forecasts, and investors appear to be focusing on a lackluster performance in the company's trading operations.

Intel — Intel beat estimates by 5 cents with quarterly profit of 64 cents per share, and revenue was also above analyst forecasts. The chipmaker did see continued weak demand in the personal computer segment, but that was more than offset by strong numbers for Intel's data center and mobile device chip businesses.

Oracle — The stock was downgraded to "market underperform" from "market perform" at JMP Securities, which points to competitive pressure from Amazon Web Services, among other factors.

GoPro — The camera maker's stock was cut to "neutral" from "overweight" at Piper Jaffray, which sees near-term volatility in the stock amid softening demand and price reductions. The firm does say it continues to believe in the GoPro brand, however.

CSX — CSX reported quarterly profit of 50 cents per share, 2 cents above estimates, with revenue essentially in line. The rail operator is being hit by falling coal freight business, but cost cuts and lower fuel prices helped the bottom line.

Dollar General — Dollar General will cut approximately 255 jobs, effective immediately, after the discount retailer completed a review of its cost structure.

Goldman Sachs — Goldman is the target of a Justice Department probe of its role as an advisor to a Malaysian state development fund, according to The Wall Street Journal.

Toyota — Toyota said it hoped to sell more than 30,000 fuel cell vehicles annually around or after 2020. The automaker also said the latest version of its Prius hybrid would be 20 percent more fuel efficient than its predecessor.

Dish Network — Dish has asked the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to block the proposed merger of Charter Communications and Time Warner Cable. The satellite TV operator said a combination would have too much power in the broadband segment, and would not be any better for the public interest than Comcast's now-dead deal to buy Time Warner Cable. (Disclosure: Comcast is the parent of NBCUniversal and CNBC.)

Diageo — The spirits maker sold the majority of its U.S. and U.K. wine operations to Australia's Treasury Wine Estates for $552 million.

Apple — Apple could face up to $862 million in damages after it was found to have infringed a patent held by the University of Wisconsin-Madison's licensing arm. The patent was for a process that improves the efficiency of chips used in many popular Apple devices.

EMC — EMC would pay Dell a breakup fee of up to $2.5 billion, if it backs out of the deal to be acquired by Dell because of a better offer.

SanDisk — SanDisk has hired a bank to explore a potential sale, according to a Bloomberg report, which also said Micron and Western Digital are among the suitors for the chip and computing products maker.

BHP Billiton — The mining company will sell about $3 billion in bonds this week, as it tests the market for commodity-related investments.