Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE:CMG) is no Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX) or Panera Bread (NASDAQ:PNRA) in the mobile space — but with Monday's announcement, maybe it could be.

The burrito chain, a popular destination for college kids and the GMO-wary, is bringing on board its first chief information officer with the hire of former Starbucks CIO Curt Garner.

Garner's hiring is a "clear sign" that Chipotle means to boost digital engagement with its customers, said RBC Capital Markets.

"This could include an increased push behind mobile order (already available but undermarketed in our view), mobile payment and loyalty/rewards," wrote RBC analyst David Palmer in a Monday report, noting that Chipotle has done "some clever digital marketing" and upgraded its mobile platform.

Chipotle's digital efforts as a whole have been relatively muted compared to some of its peers'. Wedbush analyst Nick Setyan told IBD in April that for the last two or three years, the company had shifted from tech-driven efficiencies to focus more on operations, but "maybe as they reach a ceiling, they'll refocus on technology."

And unlike Starbucks, Panera, McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) and others, the fast-casual eatery does not offer Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) Pay as a payment option.

"The chain has not pushed its mobile order platform or engaged in as much one-on-one digital marketing as peers like as Starbucks and Panera Bread," wrote Palmer. "We also wonder if this hiring may foreshadow additional spending (and overhead support) on digital platform development."

Chipotle Doesn't Use Apple Pay — Yet

In the company's Q2 earnings call in July, Chief Creative and Development Officer Mark Crumpacker said that Chipotle was "still in the process of evaluating the level of effort that's going to be required to implement Apple Pay in particular. And we certainly see that as being a significant benefit to us once we can get that enabled, especially if it in any way speeds throughput at our restaurants."

While Apple Pay is still a work in progress, Chipotle introduced a mobile app for the Apple Watch earlier this year. Crumpacker also said that the company has been investing in mobile "on an ongoing basis for quite a while."

Chipotle's same-store sales could stand to rise 1%-2% over two to three quarters after implementing mobile payment, wrote Cowen & Co. analyst Andrew Charles in April.

Garner's appointment is part of a short game of musical chairs. Last week, Starbucks said that it was hiring former Adobe Systems (NASDAQ:ADBE) CIO Gerri Martin-Flickinger to become Starbucks' first chief technology officer. She replaces Curt Garner.

Contrary to Chipotle, the java giant has an assertive mobile presence among its restaurant-industry peers, rolling out Mobile Order and Pay nationwide last month — ahead of schedule — as it grows its My Starbucks Rewards customer database.

Chipotle shares closed up 0.35% in the stock market today. Starbucks shares fell 0.6%. Apple shares edged up 0.2%.

Follow Elaine Low on Twitter @IBD_ELow.

RELATED:

What Chipotle Could Learn — And Earn — From Starbucks

Siren Song Of Screens: How Eateries Lure Millennials