Admitting fear is difficult. So you can imagine how shocked I was to find out Warren Buffett recently told a select number of investors about the cutting-edge technology that's keeping him awake at night.

This past May, The Motley Fool sent 8 of its best stock analysts to Omaha, Nebraska to attend the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting. CEO Warren Buffett and Vice Chairman Charlie Munger fielded questions for nearly 6 hours.

The catch was: Attendees weren't allowed to record any of it. No audio. No video.

Our team of analysts wrote down every single word Buffett and Munger uttered. Over 16,000 words. But only two words stood out to me as I read the detailed transcript of the event: "Real threat."

That's how Buffett responded when asked about this emerging market that is already expected to be worth more than $2 trillion in the U.S. alone.

Google has already put some of its best engineers behind the technology powering this trend, and another major industry claims it can turn this technology mainstream as soon as 2017.

The amazing thing is, while Buffett may be nervous, the rest of us can invest in this new industry BEFORE the old money realizes what hit them.

KPMG advises we’re “on the cusp of revolutionary change” coming much “sooner than you think."

Even one legendary MIT professor had to recant his position that the technology was “beyond the capability of computer science.” (He recently confessed to The Wall Street Journal that he’s now a believer and amazed “how quickly this technology caught on.”)

Yet according to one J.D. Power and Associates survey, only 1 in 5 Americans are even interested in this technology, much less ready to invest in it. Needless to say, you haven't missed your window of opportunity.

Think about how many amazing technologies you've watched soar to new heights while you kick yourself thinking, "I knew about that technology before everyone was talking about it, but I just sat on my hands."

Don't let that happen again. This time, it should be your family telling you, "I can't believe you knew about and invested in that technology so early on."