Streaming-music newbies Apple Music and Spotify are trying hard to knock online-music monarch Pandora Media off its throne. And Pandora's already-hefty costs to buy rights to the music for its website could rise soon if a legal decision doesn't go its way.

So what is Pandora Media (NYSE:P), the world's largest Internet music company, going to do?

The Oakland, Calif.-based online radio that reported 79.4 million active listeners in Q2 says new services and more ads will boost it to 100 million users in just a few years.

So far, Pandora's listener base places it far ahead of competitors, including Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), which in June introduced Apple Music, a service combining paid-subscription streaming of music with a 24/7 live global Internet radio station.

Pandora is also battling rival services Spotify and iHeartRadio, along with Amazon.com's (NASDAQ:AMZN) Prime Music and Internet search king Alphabet's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Google Play Music.

Pandora still held a 9.4% share of all U.S. radio listening in June, up from 8.9% at the same time last year, Pandora CEO Brian McAndrews said during the company's Q2 earnings conference call in July. About 2% of that listening is taking place in cars, a nascent market that Pandora is working to grow into a major moneymaker over the long term, McAndrews said.

Meanwhile, Pandora's mobile presence keeps revenue rolling in.

"Remember that about 79% of our revenue comes from mobile, (along with) 86% of our traffic, so we're monetizing extremely well," Pandora CFO Mike Herring said at the Goldman Sachs 24th Annual Communacopia Brokers Conference in September.

The company's technology enables users to create up to 100 Internet music stations that its algorithms further personalize.

In other words, a user who sets up a station on Pandora featuring sultry R&B singer Alicia Keys will be presented with more Keys songs. They'll also hear music from other artists Pandora deems similar, including Beyonce, Mary J. Blige and Mariah Carey.

Based on a listener's rating of the songs the service selects, Pandora plays more music it determines the listener will like, which Pandora calls a "lean-back" experience.

Although Pandora offers an ad-free subscription option for a fee, most listeners choose the free version that includes ads.

In Q2, just 20% of the company's revenue came from subscription fees.

The emphasis on free is what sets Pandora apart from its competitors, Rosenblatt Securities analyst Martin Pyykkonen told IBD. "If you think of Spotify, Apple Music, Google Play Music, Amazon Prime Music and Rdio, they're all really an on-demand service. It's streaming music, but it's something you pay a subscription fee for."