If Republican presidential candidates needed any evidence to support their tax-cutting agenda, they can look no further than the Tax Foundation’s 2015 International Tax Competitiveness Index. The U.S. ranks third to last of the 34 member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

It’s no secret that at 35% — 39% if you include state taxes — the U.S. has the highest statutory corporate tax rate among industrialized nations. Which is why U.S. corporations have been talking with their feet, shifting business overseas, keeping profits (some $2 trillion) overseas, even incorporating with smaller foreign companies, all to take advantage of the more favorable tax treatment.

Yet for all the griping about the high tax rate, the percentage of total revenue from corporate taxes has plummeted from almost 40% in 1943 to 11% in 2014, outpacing the decline in the marginal rate itself.

So what’s the big deal? A 2014 report from the Congressional Research Service compared effective corporate tax rates for OECD countries and found that the U.S. was pretty much in line with the average.

The big deal is that companies spend a lot of time and money to lower their effective rate instead of doing something productive. The most notable example is General Electric GE, +2.53% which almost obliterated its tax liability on $14 billion of profits in 2010, filing the electronic equivalent of a 57,000-page tax return. What do you think GE’s 975-person tax department does with its time? (The 2011 New York Times story claiming GE paid no taxes turned out to be incorrect.)

And that’s the point. A lower rate reduces the incentive to exploit every last loophole. The goal should be to find the most efficient tax system that provides the government with the revenue it needs. A neutral tax code, as defined by the Tax Foundation, is one that “seeks to raise the most revenue with the fewest economic distortion,” one that avoids tax breaks for specific business activities, and one that doesn’t favor spending over saving.

It is for this reason — along with additional taxes, rules about expensing investments and the treatment of foreign profits — that the U.S. ranks so low on the Tax Foundation Index.

Now, don’t confuse tax competitiveness with overall competitiveness. When one takes into account things like property rights, judicial independence, ethics and corruption, and innovation, the U.S. ranks near the top on any global competitiveness scale. Which is why, given equal tax treatment, businesses would chose to be domiciled in the U.S.

But back to our story line. Last year, the Obama administration issued new rules to reduce the appeal of incorporating overseas, a process known as a tax inversion. The whizzes at Treasury clearly acted without thinking in their haste to put an end to inversions.

As The Economist explained in an aptly titled article, “Inverted Logic,” making it harder for U.S. companies to invert “does precisely nothing to alter the comparative tax advantages of changing domicile.” Instead, it increases the likelihood of overseas firms acquiring U.S. companies, “which is precisely what is happening.”

Fast forward to the 2016 presidential campaign, and most of the GOP candidates are pledging tax cuts, both for corporations and households, of varying degrees. Revenue neutral they are not.

On the corporate front, Donald Trump would lower the tax rate on all businesses to 15% and would tax all foreign income at the time it is earned. Jeb Bush would cut the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% and change to a territorial system, one that doesn’t tax foreign profits. Both candidates would eliminate the carried-interest loophole, which allows fund managers to pay the lower capital gains rate on some income.

All of the other candidates favor a reduction in tax rates and the elimination of loopholes. (Who doesn’t?) As governor of Ohio, John Kasich is known to favor a consumption tax over an income tax. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio advocate a 25% corporate tax rate. Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul wants a flat tax, as does retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson.

The CRS report estimated that the impact of a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 25% would have “a modest positive effect” on wages and output: a one-time increase of less than 0.002% of output, amounting to about $36 billion.

CRS said that it was difficult, not impossible, to design a revenue-neutral cut in the corporate tax rate to 25%, but closing loopholes alone wouldn’t yield enough revenue. That doesn’t mean it’s not worth trying.

The U.S. economy would see a flurry of creative activity and innovation, giving productivity a much-needed boost, if April 15 were just another day of the year. And as for the legions of highly compensated tax attorneys who devote their time to finding new and clever ways to avoid the IRS, I’m confident they could find a more productive use for their not-insignificant talents.