Following unprecedented growth in Apple, Inc.'s (NASDAQ: AAPL) stock price during Q3 2012, some market pundits openly wondered if AAPL was the first riskless equity investment. Of course, the price dropped back below $100 shortly thereafter when profit margins shrunk in ensuing months. The company saw stock prices drop nearly 40% before rebounding, proving that every investment carries risk.

Similar sentiments were revived in Q4 2014, but reality struck again in 2015 with sliding Apple stock prices. Apple may be the most cash-flush and successful company in the United States, but it still faces challenges and risks. The most pressing include navigating without Steve Jobs, lots of exposure to Asian markets, the possibly unrealistic expectations of shareholders, standard market risks and the overdependence on iPhone sales.

The Steve Jobs Effect

When Apple tapped Tim Cook as the successor to the late Steve Jobs, the company gambled that it could be just as successful with a very different form of leadership. Any fundamental analyst will tell you management matters a great deal, and a switch to a less outgoing and innovative form of management almost certainly results in performance changes.

The early returns were promising; Apple remained profitable, and dramatically so, during the first few years of Mr. Cook's stewardship. The partnership with IBM showed Apple was capable of building relationships with other firms, something which the mercurial Jobs admittedly struggled to achieve.

But Steve Jobs was personally responsible for the iPod, iPhone, iPad and the fabulously successful Apple Store. The company completely reinvented itself multiple times and persevered on the force of his personality and genius. It remains to be seen if Apple will remain flexible, creative and viable moving forward, which are necessary characteristics within a relentless technology sector.

China's Slowdown

In August 2015, Apple CEO Tim Cook was asked about positive news from his latest earnings report. He responded that Apple saw a 90% growth in the massive Chinese market over the prior three months. Unfortunately, Mr. Cook's bullish outlook came roughly one month before a massive Chinese sell-off and new concerns over fundamentals in the Chinese economy.

Apple made a very large bet on Asian markets largely because the American market is so saturated; there are not that many new customers in the U.S. If the Chinese smartphone market turns out to be soft, Apple could have a hard time recouping its investment in a timely manner.

This is a major concern among portfolio managers. The Financial Times interviewed portfolio managers about the anticipated launch of the iPhone 6, but the fear among those interviewed was Apple had an uncertain future in China.

Gravity

A mathematician named Jacob Bernoulli found that the performance of a variable tends toward its expected value as the sample size grows. This became known as the law of large numbers and, in terms of investing, essentially means it is incredibly difficult to outperform the market forever.

Apple experienced an average annual total return of 32.16% between 2005 and 2015; the S&P 500 averaged 7.22% over the same time frame. Even if the law of large numbers does not perfectly apply to a single investment, or single investor if you are Warren Buffett, the probabilities are stacked against AAPL stock seeing similar returns between 2015 and 2025.

This can be summed up as the "risk of overconfidence based on past performance." As of 2015, Apple co-dominates the smartphone market, along with Samsung, but that hegemony is at risk from competitors such as Lenovo Group Limited, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., LG Electronics, Inc. and ZTE Corporation.

Market Risk

Apple is the largest company in the world. It has a global reach and probably affects the performance of the S&P 500 more than any other company in the 21st century. That influence works both ways, however, and Apple's profitability depends on the economic health of its target consumer markets. Put another way, Apple faces all kinds of indirect market risks.

One underrated but obvious example is exchange rate risk. Apple depends on manufacturers in China to assemble, build and ship its products to wealthy Western markets. Chinese laborers are not paid in U.S. dollars; they are paid in Chinese yuan. This means a lot of Apple's costs are denominated in yuan.

If the yuan appreciates against the dollar, Apple is hit twofold. Chinese manufacturers will become relatively more expensive for Apple to use. It also means American consumers will have relatively less purchasing power to buy iPhones. Indeed, many blame this currency movement as the reason Apple came up short of an earnings projection in Q4 2012.

Add in other universal risks such as regulatory risk and business cycle risk; these are the kinds of risks that never fully go away, and investors should always safeguard against them. The traditional coping mechanism is portfolio diversification, although more ambitious investors might try timing through active trades.

Reliance on Big-Ticket Products

The iPhone, and all of its iterations, is wildly popular with consumers, but the success of Apple's headline product creates an inherent risk. In the first quarter of 2015, the iPhone was responsible for nearly 70% of all revenue for the company; the iPad was a distant second. This was not an anomaly.

Consumer taste is notoriously fickle, particularly in the technology sphere. There is no question Apple's iPhone line enjoys one of the most remarkable runs of success in modern history, but there is no inevitable law that says the iPhone will always be a popular product. Consider the once overwhelming popularity of the Blackberry in the early and middle 2000s.

Apple attempted to diversify its product line with the Apple Watch, which it estimated would sell up to 31 million units in the first year. However, smartwatches have never sold anywhere close to such figures, and there is very little shareholders like less than missed projections.

Apple is a very strong company with high profit margins and a seemingly limitless cash flow. There are some serious risks to being overly dependent on big-ticket products; it is analogous to an investor who is overly dependent on a single stock such as AAPL.