One of the most popular "what if" games in the investment world is "What if I had bought Apple stock years ago?" The value of a share of Apple, Inc. (NASDAQ: AAPL) increased by more than 4,000% in the 20-year period between 1992 and 2012, even though that period includes the dot-com crash and the Great Recession. And while it might be entertaining to wonder about what might have been, investors are better served by trying to find the next great tech stock to buy and hold moving forward.

Technology stocks are a favorite among growth investors, but firms such as Apple and Microsoft Corporation have proven that buy-and-hold investors can still find long-term gems in the industry. The keys to finding the best long-term stocks are the same for technology as they are in any other sector: look for well-managed, well-positioned companies with a track record of rewarding shareholders.

Apple, Inc.

Apple is king for a reason, and no buy-and-hold list is complete without it. The venerable Steve Jobs is no longer at the helm, but this firm is the definition of a corporate survivor and still has a bright outlook. Apple has successfully reinvented itself several times over the past two-plus decades, from computer powerhouse to handheld electronics and, as of 2015, telecommunications. If there is any reason to doubt the world's most valuable company, it might be the newfound dependence on Asian smartphone consumer markets; prognostications about the future of Asian economies are notoriously hit-or-miss. If China and Japan slump, APPL stock could fall along with the smartphone market.

Despite negative headlines in Q3 2015, no company has a more impressive resume as it pertains to cash flow, profitability or price-to-book ratio. Long-term investors want to see a clear track record of core earnings and return on equity, and nobody compares with APPL.

Avago Technologies, Ltd.

Avago (NASDAQ: AVGO) is probably a new name to a lot of investors, but the $33.4 billion firm is a strong contributor across the multiple segments of wireless communication, wired infrastructure and enterprise storage.

The bullish argument for Avago is based around movements in the underlying market. Industry experts predict a sharp rise in LTE penetration in the United States, Europe and Asia before 2020. The premium filter market, which Avago dominates, is expected to more than double between 2015 and 2017 according to Morgan Stanley research.

Even if these prognostications come up short, AVGO has demonstrated impressive revenue growth and widening margins; gross margins by mid-2015 were 61.68% and net margins were 21.18%. AVGO is not a cheap buy anymore, but the foundation is strong enough that even a little premium should not be a deterrent.

Netflix, Inc.

Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) scares some analysts because its explosive rise seems speculative. This is probably a shallow, but understandable, perspective. After all, the tech sector has seen its fair share of shooting stars that faded away almost as soon as they appeared. NFLX grew by some 4,000% from 2003 to 2015 and does not offer a tangible product that consumers can hold in their hands like APPL.

But CEO Reed Hastings stays ahead of the game. The huge gamble on expensive Netflix-original content, such as "House of Cards," paid off big-time in the United States; international markets are just starting to take notice. The firm's share of peak download Internet traffic continues to grow, from 21% in 2010 to 36% in 2015. With rising profitability, strong management and billions of potential untapped clients overseas, NFLX is poised for growth over the next decade.

Google, Inc.

Not surprisingly, Google (NASDAQ: GOOGL) is one of the most entrenched and well-positioned companies in any sector. The search engine giant has never blown the competition away with return on equity, but the point is GOOGL never lags behind an industry that should remain an economic powerhouse. This is an innovative, well-managed company flush with cash.

Google's advantage is tied to its brand name and ubiquitous imprint on the U.S. economy; everyone in the market has to contend with Google's search results. The fundamentals are solid as profit margins continue to expand, and there does not seem to be any viable challenger to Google's Web-surfing hegemony.

SunEdison, Inc.

Few companies are actually strong enough to take advantage of an undeniable social and political movement behind renewable energy sources, but SunEdison (NYSEARCA: SUNE) is one of them. By Q1 2015, the company had a market capitalization of $4.24 billion, making it the world's largest private renewable energy development entity. It has a major presence in solar, wind and hydro power.

SunEdison has had an active few years since entering consumer and residential solar markets in 2013. It acquired First Wind, another big player in the space, and shook off a legal scare when the Northern District of California dismissed a lawsuit from rival SunPower. It also ran into a huge sell-off in July and August 2015 over concerns about low oil prices and funding.

The company pivoted by partnering with Dominion Resources, Inc., a huge utilities company, and announced a two-part capital funding plan. With financing concerns addressed and a tangible competitive advantage, such as the SUNE "open architecture" model and strong structural relationships across the globe, SUNE could represent an enormous long-term value play.

State of the Technology Sector

In March 2015, the NASDAQ Composite rose to 5,000 for the first time since the heights of the tech bubble in 2000. This prompted widespread hand-wringing about the prospects of another bubble market, including a proclamation from Mark Cuban that the tech sector was so overvalued it was "worse than 2000."

The fundamentals tell a different story. For starters, the technology sector of 2015 is much less top-heavy than 15 years earlier when Microsoft and Cisco Systems accounted for nearly 10% of the entire S&P. Apple, by far the largest player in the space, made up less than 4% of the S&P in March 2015, and this was still months away from the big Apple sell-off.

Tech yields have risen substantially since the dot-com era, which is a healthy indication of improved staying power. Earnings tell a similar story; in 2000, Intel Corporation boasted sector-high earnings of $10.5 billion. By 2015, Microsoft, Intel, Oracle Corporation and IBM all showed earnings above $11 billion, and Apple was in another stratosphere at $39.5 billion. There is no question valuations were out of whack in 2000, but there is an argument to be made that technology stocks are priced more realistically than the broader market in 2015.