Must have been a boring afternoon at Apple Inc. AAPL, +1.53% on Tuesday: Someone using the company’s IP address decided to troll famous people — and even the city of Austin, Texas — on Wikipedia.

A series of Wikipedia updates tracked by the Twitter account @ValleyEdits on Tuesday afternoon showed a user editing the pages of celebrities including comedians Patton Oswalt and Aziz Ansari. The Twitter account uses publicly available code to track anonymous Wikipedia updates from the IP addresses of Silicon Valley companies such as Google, Apple and even the Wikimedia Foundation itself. Similar accounts track such posts from the U.S. Congress and British Parliament.

Wikipedia

Tuesday afternoon’s edits claimed that Ansari was a part-time shoeshiner and massage therapist in addition to his comedy work, and said that Oswalt got into comedy after “a failed stint as the ’Michelin’ mascot - he didn’t even have to wear a costume.” Another comedian, Doug Benson, had his Wikipedia page updated to claim that he had never ingested marijuana; the update called the “Super High Me” star “a master actor, capable of fooling the masses of his intoxication.”

The troll’s other targets were a trio of actors: Joe Pesci, whose characters were said to “have a sensitive, nearly gay, introspective side;” Orlando Bloom, who was said as a young man to be “frequently discouraged because of his awkward and pale appearance;” and former “Superboy” actor John Newton, who was said to have collected 38 wives.

Wikipedia

Even the city of Austin, Texas, was targeted, with an update claiming the capital city was originally called “Mamunapphet Cigosi,” which the entry says “roughly translates to ‘Spider Weasel’ in Algonquin.”

Wikipedia is an online dictionary continuously updated by volunteers and owned by the nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation. One of the site’s “five pillars” states, “All articles must strive for verifiable accuracy, citing reliable, authoritative sources, especially when the topic is controversial or is on living persons.”

More from MarketWatch