Instead of giving the children in his life candy for Halloween or toys for the holidays, investment adviser “Downtown” Josh Brown will be giving them stock.

Brown — who has nearly 120,000 followers on Twitter and is the author of “The Reformed Broker” blog — announced this week that he joined the board of advisers for SparkGift, a company that allows you to gift stock to a friend or a child within a few minutes.

You can buy stock in Apple Inc. AAPL, +1.53% or Google GOOG, +1.43% or any other public company — or give shares of a Vanguard index fund — for $2.95 and a 3% fee, which is less than many major brokerage houses charge for trades (the fee is waived until January 2016 for gifts up to $100). However, many brokers waive monthly fees on investments of $100,000, and SparkGift only allows stock gifts of between $20 and $2,000. The website creates a gift certificate and sends it to the recipient, who pays nothing to redeem the gift and hold the investment. The aim: Children learn about why the stock’s value goes up and down, and begin thinking of using their money to play the market instead of, say, video games.

Brown’s Bar Mitzvah money is all gone now, but he says he would have been better off using it to buy stock. “It’s a little bit like giving out pennies on Halloween versus lollipops,” he says in an interview, “but I think today’s younger generation is a lot more savvy about business, and studies show that they’re extremely interested in their career and growing wealth, even though they don’t have a lot of money to invest.” (Some 57% of members of so-called Generation Z, who range in age from 14 to 24, said money is “very important” to them, up from 50% the previous year, according to a 2014 survey of 1,000 people in that age group carried out by the online broker TD Ameritrade.)

So what stock would make a good gift for a child? Brown, who just bought his 3-year-old nephew stock instead of toys, says, “Most appropriate would be a very basic index fund and, for an older child, niece or nephew, Netflix NFLX, -0.65% or Walt Disney Co. DIS, +2.87% or Nike NKE, -0.05% , and Under Armour UA, -5.39% for an athlete. But choose one that reflects your and their values, rather than just based on the stock’s long-term outlook, he says. “Cigarette or beer companies would not be the most appropriate thing in the world,” Brown says. “No judgment, it’s just not a message you want to send.”

But there are limits to the amount Brown would spend on a stock gift for a friend’s child. Would he, for example, buy a 16-gigabyte Apple iPad Air 2 for $499 or gift Apple stock of equal value? “Neither,” he says, “unless it was a very good friend.”

Read: When is it OK to re-gift?

Other sites like UniqueStockGift.com and GiveAShare.com allow you to buy a stock certificate for a single share (and you can buy more shares from a separate broker). Both charge a $39 fee per single share of stock, in addition to the price of the stock, and registrants of some public companies charge an additional $10 or $15 on top of that. But Rick Roman, co-founder of GiveAShare.com, says the recipient will (like every shareholder) receive an annual report and dividend checks (if the company is issuing them). His parents gave him Topps Chewing Gum stock when it was a public company. “It produced baseball and football cards,” he says. “It was a changing point in my life. I got interested and had a lifetime of dealing in finance.”

GiveAShare lists the top 7 stocks purchased for each age group. DreamWorks Animation comes in at No. 1 for babies, ahead of The Walt Disney Co., Build-A-Bear Workshop BBW, -2.79% , The Coca-Cola Co. KO, +2.49% , Hasbro HAS, +3.74% and McDonald’s MCD, +8.12% . (Some parents may balk at buying their children shares in a soda, candy or fast-food company, given that health advocates say they shouldn’t be marketed to kids.) SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. SEAS, +2.11% tops the GiveAShare poll for young children, followed by Disney, DreamWorks, Berkshire Hathaway BRK.A, +3.06% , Hasbro, Coca-Cola and Nike. Facebook FB, +2.64% , Twitter TWTR, -0.51% and Apple top the list for teens.

Investing in stocks is becoming increasingly accessible and, for all age groups, Tesla TSLA, +0.78% , Disney, Google and Facebook are the most popular stock gifts, says Peggy Mangot, chief executive at SparkGift. People can also buy fractional shares of a stock or fund. “It makes investment gifting accessible and easy.” Vanguard Total Stock Market ETF VTI, +1.47% , Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF VIG, +1.97% and Vanguard Long-Term Government Bond ETF VGLT, +0.10% are the most popular funds. “Give something that they are at least willing to read about so they’re more engaged,” says Robert Stammers, director of investor education for the CFA Institute. “A friend’s child is really into metal, so they’re picking gold mining stocks.”

“The gift givers want the receiver to make a connection with the investment to help them learn,” Mangot says. SparkGift also lets people create a gift registry for children’s birthdays, baby showers, weddings “and, sometimes, for no occasion at all.”

More from MarketWatch