The consolidation trend buzzing around the semiconductor industry is expected to continue into 2016, with SanDisk and Maxim Integrated Products the latest companies rumored to be on the sales block.

Speculation about the pair of takeover candidates surfaced just this week, after a record pace of consolidation this year.

In the first half of 2015, chip M&A action reached a $72.6 billion combined value — an all-time high and nearly six times the annual average the previous five years, according IC Insights.

Micron and Western Digital have reportedly been targeting the Milpitas, Calif.-based SanDisk for acquisition. AP View Enlarged Image

Chipmakers are scrambling to remain profitable as organic growth slows amid a limp global economy, MKM Partners analyst Ian Ing told IBD.

"It's hard to latch onto secular growth," he said. "Even smartphones and the Internet of Things markets are slowing. The industry is maturing."

M&A buzz accelerated this week with reports that SanDisk (NASDAQ:SNDK) might be acquired by Micron (NASDAQ:MU) or Western Digital (NASDAQ:WDC), and that Analog Devices (NASDAQ:ADI) might be courting Maxim (NASDAQ:MXIM).

Also, Fairchild Semiconductor (NASDAQ:FCS) soared 16% Wednesday and another 3.1% Thursday on rumors it could be acquired.

They'd join a long list of deals.

In June, Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) agreed to buy Altera (NASDAQ:ALTR) for $16.7 billion.

In May, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone chip supplier Avago Technologies (NASDAQ:AVGO) announced an agreement to acquire Broadcom (NASDAQ:BRCM) for $37 billion — then the biggest merger of pure-tech companies. This week's $67 billion merger agreement announced by Dell and EMC (NYSE:EMC) is now No. 1.

This year, China's Tsinghua Group reportedly was interested in buying Micron for $23 billion as China tries to become less dependent on chip imports. Tsinghua recently invested $3.8 billion in Western Digital.

In the 1980s and 1990s, only "IBM (NYSE:IBM) and Motorola (NYSE:MSI) were highly integrated," Ing said. "Fast-forward to today, and there are really only 20 customers that matter (for chipmakers), so it makes sense to vertically integrate and scale."

Rather than a fractured and specialized industry, chipmakers will join forces to better appeal to heavyweight chip users such as Apple, Samsung Electronics (), Hewlett-Packard (NYSE:HP) and Cisco Systems (NASDAQ:CSCO), he says.

Fabless firms, which don't do their own chip manufacturing, are most susceptible to M&A activity, he said.

"The fabless model is broken because specialization is down in software now vs. hardware," he said. "It makes sense to in-source your manufacturing."

Skyworks Solutions' (NASDAQ:SWKS) $2 billion acquisition of PMC-Sierra (NASDAQ:PMCS), announced this month, makes sense, Ing says. Skyworks sells chips to Apple for use in its iPhones, while PMC reaps revenue from Cisco, HP and Dell on the equipment side.