Since the iPhone 6 Plus launched last year, Apple Inc. has been gaining on Samsung Electronics in the latter’s home market of South Korea.

Apple AAPL, +1.53% racked up a double-digit share of the country’s smartphone market for the first time this summer, tripling year-over-year to 14% in July as more users of Google Inc.’s GOOGL, +1.39% Android GOOGL, +1.39% operating system made the switch to iOS, according to data released Thursday by Counterpoint Research.

This has been “mostly at the expense of Samsung,” whose share of the total South Korean smartphone market stood still at 59% in July, according to Counterpoint director Tom Kang.

Samsung was able to recoup some of the losses incurred from Apple by going after the smaller manufacturers, such as LG Electronics 066570, -0.38% and Pantech. LG’s share slid to 22% from 29%, while Pantech’s nose-dived from 4% to 1%, according to the Counterpoint research. Apple’s influence is having an effect, though.

“Samsung still has a loyal following in Korea,” said Ramon Llamas, research manager at industry tracker IDC. “But Apple is certainly making a run.”

Apple’s share in South Korea, where users have long been accustomed to the Samsung Galaxy Note phablets and other larger-screen Galaxy phones, has been gaining ever since the launch of the 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, Apple’s first large-screen iPhone, Kang said. Its share gain was most prominent right after the iPhone 6 Plus launched, growing sevenfold in the fourth quarter of 2014.

While the growth rate has since slowed, Kang said he believes there’s still room for Apple to grow there as the “iPhone ecosystem effect” — the idea that Apple’s interconnected operating systems and devices keep users within the Apple brand — begins to take hold.

“Mature smartphone users (mostly Android) have started to upgrade to Apple iPhones,” he said.

Shares of Apple rose 1.3% to $116.60 in recent trade, though they are down 12% over the last three months, underperforming the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 5.3% decline. Samsung’s shares gained 1.2% earlier Thursday on the Korea Stock Exchange, and are up 3% over the last three months.

More from MarketWatch