Getty Images Why is this man smiling? Apple CEO Tim Cook is a pragmatist, unlike his predecessor, Steve Jobs, who was fueled by ego.

MarketWatch’s Brett Arends trolled like a champ Thursday by explaining to Apple acolytes why he prefers a (gasp!) Windows Phone to an iPhone.

But if that wasn’t enough to get your Lightning to USB cables all knotted up, I’d like to offer my own bit of Apple AAPL, +1.53% sacrilege: Tim Cook is doing a better job running Apple than the late Steve Jobs would.

Keep that in mind as you head out to see the new Aaron Sorkin-penned movie of the Apple co-founder’s life this week.

In all honestly, nobody can know for sure who the “real” Steve Jobs was. There was Good Steve, who was canonized for his vision and determination; Bad Steve, known for his arrogant management style; and Pitchman Steve, the marketing genius.

It’s similarly naïve to think that anyone can know who the real Tim Cook is, too. However, I think most investors would agree that the two CEOs are quite different. And, on balance, Cook is the better man for the job today.

Here’s why:

Cook cares about investor sentiment: In March, investing icon and “Mad Money” host Jim Cramer got a surprise call from Tim Cook wishing him a happy 10-year anniversary. Could you imagine Steve Jobs calling up Cramer the showman? Even more telling was when Cook emailed Cramer in August to give a rare mid-quarter update of sorts, including a report that China sales were going strong. It’s hard to believe Jobs would care so much about this kind of investor-focused communication. But it’s also undeniable that, in 2015, public companies like Apple need to acknowledge the power of folks like Cramer in moving their stock price.

Cook cares about shareholders: It’s not all touchy-feely talk from Cook when it comes to advocating for investors, either. There’s also a strong history of dividends and buybacks, including more than $126 billion in capital returned to shareholders since the end of 2012. Jobs was famous for hoarding cash rather than distributing it because he wanted to reinvest in Apple’s growth. And remember that Jobs saw Apple barely avoid bankruptcy; thus, he found great comfort in a cash cushion. Cook isn’t quite as stingy. And while spending all that cash on buybacks and dividends is not without risks, it’s ultimately a net positive for shareholders.

Cook is a maker, not a thinker: The biggest reason Cook joined Apple way back in the late 1990s was to clean up a messy manufacturing and distribution system. But his management skills have been put to an equally challenging test more recently as the sprawling tech company cranks out a dizzying amount of devices, including roughly 50 million iPhones, 11 million iPads and five million Mac computers each quarter, with other niche gadgets like Apple TV and the Apple Watch muddying up the supply chain even more. It’s great that Jobs had the vision to create devices that so many people wanted, but making these high-quality gadgets and delivering them around the world, on time, is no small feat. It’s not an exaggeration to say that without a best-in-class supply chain, Apple’s image wouldn’t be quite so polished regardless of its innovative tech toys.

Cook is a pragmatist: One of the best things Cook has done for Apple is take more of the blame and negotiate the business objectively, something Steve Jobs wasn’t particularly good at. Cook isn’t afraid to admit mistakes, such as apologizing for a botched Apple Maps rollout in 2012. He also took to heart criticism about conditions at the company’s manufacturing partner Foxconn by visiting the facilities and pushing for reforms. Another evidence of humility and a cool head were efforts to settle patent lawsuits with firms like HTC and Samsung rather than drag them out for the sake of ego. Jobs famously called his battles with Google GOOG, +1.43% a “Holy War” in an email, so it’s pretty safe to say settling lawsuits wasn’t exactly his style.

Cook is the future of Apple 2.0: Look, Steve Jobs was great. And he undoubtedly presided over a monumental run for Apple. But CEOs sometimes get caught in their own echo chamber, and even some of the top execs in the world run out of runway. Just as it’s undeniable that Jobs did great things, it’s also hard to argue that Cook hasn’t made some shrewd moves that directly oppose the way his predecessor would have done things. Take the firing of software lead Scott Forstall and elevation of design guru Jony Ive, a move to cut out one of Jobs’ favorite employees for the good of other managers. Or take the very successful launch of the iPad Mini despite Jobs saying no tablet should ever be less than 10 inches. This is not the same company with the same needs it had 10 years ago, and in many cases (including this one), a change of leadership allows for a new vision to take hold.

More from MarketWatch