Cody Willard writes the Revolution Investing newsletter for MarketWatch and is chairman of social website Scutify.com , a community of investors and traders. He's also publisher of TradingWithCody.com , where he posts the trades from his personal account, and is the principal of CL Willard Capital. Willard has been a TV anchor on Fox Business and a Wall Street correspondent for the Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Follow Cody on Twitter @codywillard and Scutify .

The stock market is less volatile than it was a month ago, but investors are still complacent.

Other than in biotech, where pricing is likely going to be pressured in the years ahead, I'm finding a lot of interesting opportunities for the Revolution Investing portfolio. Here are some highlights from my inbox this week.

Q. I trust your judgement, but I don't understand how you turned more bullish suddenly. (Editor's note: See Cody's Trading Deck post from last week, Stocks are likely to rise as 2016 approaches). All the factors (noise) like Fed interest rate hikes, China’s market, the oil price drop, strong U.S. dollar, which are important to many in market, haven't changed much. Also, if you ask who is scared more right now, I guess we would get 50-50, which means we are not trading opposite to the crowd. Can you explain what made you feel that the path of least resistance is upward right now?

A. My bullishness could end up being wrong. But let's run through each of your so-called bearish points and see why they're actually probably bullish. We've been hearing about a Fed rate hike nonstop and I don't believe that moving interest rates from 0% to 0.25% or even to 1% is going to stop people from seeking higher risk assets like stocks since rates are just too low. China's consumer class is going to grow by millions of people this year and next. Oil and energy price drops are good for other businesses and all consumers around the world. A strong U.S. dollar means that every dollar I get paid with is more valuable than it would be otherwise, and I want what I get paid in to have more value, not less. So I actually find most of those economic trends you're citing to be quite bullish, not bearish. And stocks have come down 30%-50% almost across the board, which is also bullish in my mind.

Q. Could you talk a little about gold? You've mentioned a stall between $1,100 and $1,200. Is this strictly a technical analysis? Any guess on how long the stall — and whether the next move is positive? This relates to the question of whether we might want to trim some of the tremendous gains in GDX $15 December 15 calls to date — I know you're still not selling them. (Until recently, I've been adding on dips to improve cost basis; wondering if i still should, though it's getting to be a very large position within my portfolio.)

A. If you haven't taken any profits on the GDX call options, I probably would look at trimming maybe a third or even half here. I might trim a few more GDX call options myself just to lock in some of those outsized gains. I am just "feet-to-the-fire" when I say I think gold could top near $1,200 near-term. Longer-term I think gold could be $5,000 an ounce during my lifetime. The GDX call options were just a trade, though. Most gold miner stocks have too much debt, and if gold doesn't stay above $1,200, there could be some bankruptcies in the next few years in gold miners.

Q. Cody, can you do some Revolution Investing analysis on Illumina (ILMN)?

A. ILMN looks like a better short than a long. It's another biotech stock that is growing quickly and it’s making outsized margins because they're lobbying the government to set the prices for ILMN's products as high as possible. That dynamic is likely changing, and I think biotech margins are about to start seeing declines, which will impact their earnings estimates and growth over the next three to five years. ILMN makes 70% gross margins vs Apple's 40%-ish. Illumina has $1 billion in debt and about a billion in cash. I own some puts on the IBB and might go ahead and buy some puts on some individual biotech stocks in the months ahead too.

Q. Do you have any feel for the Apple earnings report?

A. Apple iPhone 6s and 6s Plus sales have been strong, and I expect the Watch is doing OK too. IPads and Macs are steady. Hope the bar isn't set too high though, as I don't think Apple's earnings report will be a "blowout" or anything.

I expand on these questions and answers in the latest Cody Underground Podcast below, or you can find it on iTunes.

More from MarketWatch