NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are 10 things you should know for Friday, Oct. 9:

1. -- U.S. stock futures were falling slightly Friday but global stocks rose on expectations the Federal Reserve will keep interest rates at a record low for at least several more months.

2. -- The economic calendar in the U.S. on Friday includes export and import prices for September at 8:30 a.m. EDT, and wholesale inventories for August at 10 a.m.

3. -- U.S. stocks on Thursday rose as sentiment continues to strengthen that the Fed is unlikely to raise interest rates before March.

On the day, the S&P 500 rose 0.9%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.3%, and the Nasdaq climbed 0.4%.



Investors interpreted the central bank's minutes of its September meeting as dovish. Increased downside risks in September encouraged members to delay a rate hike last month, according to the minutes. Members said it would be "prudent" to wait until risks eased before tightening monetary policy for the first time in a decade.

4 -- Aluminum giant Alcoa (AA - Get Report) posted a sharp decline in third-quarter earnings amid falling aluminum prices.

Aluminum prices have been sliding on sluggish global growth, particularly in China. Alcoa said it was paid 25% less a ton than it received a year earlier.

Alcoa earned $44 million in the third quarter, down from $149 million a year earlier. Adjusted earnings were 7 cents a share. Revenue fell 11% to $5.57 billion. Analysts expected Alcoa to post earnings of 13 cents a share on revenue of $5.65 billion.



The company also slashed its forecasts for China.

5. -- Netflix (NFLX - Get Report) is raising the price of its Internet video service by $1 for new customers in the U.S., Canada and some Latin America countries.

The new price of $10 a month for Netflix's standard plan -- its most popular -- marks the second time in 17 months the streaming company has boosted its U.S. rates by $1. The trend reflects the financial pressure that Netflix is facing as it competes against Amazon.com, HBO and other services for the rights to TV series and movies that will expand its audience.

6. -- The latest proposed four-year contract for Fiat Chrysler's (FCAU) U.S. unionized workers would over time eliminate the two-tier pay structure, allowing new hires to reach top pay within eight years, sources told Reuters.

The proposal agreed to by the United Auto Workers and Fiat Chrysler negotiators late Wednesday also would increase the top pay for some second-tier workers to $29 in the course of the agreement, up from their current pay of about $19 per hour, sources said. That would also be up from about $25 top pay for second-tier workers that was in the proposed contract rejected last month by a nearly 2-to-1 margin, Reuters reported.

The failure of the first agreement led the UAW to threaten a strike against Fiat Chrysler, which was to begin Wednesday at just before midnight. That would have been the first stoppage at a U.S. automaker since 2007, Reuters noted.

7. -- Apple (AAPL - Get Report) removed some products from its App Store over concerns they could compromise users' sensitive details, CNBC reported.

The iPhone maker didn't reveal how many apps had been taken down, CNBC reported, but the problem appeared to center on products that install "root certificates."