Updated from 3:07 p.m. to include tweet from Musk.

NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- As Elon Musk lobs some shots across Silicon Valley on Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) car efforts, Wall Street is firing right back.

For the third time this week, an investment bank has cut its outlook on the Palo Alto, Calif.-based Tesla (TSLA - Get Report) , with Barclays analyst Brian A. Johnson downgrading shares to underweight, citing significant challenges ahead for the electric vehicle maker. In addition, Johnson cut his price target from $190 to $180.

Johnson cited key factors such as the Model X rollout not being "the technical boost we expected," as well as causing there to be a "reality check on [gross] margins," and the potential for the slow ramp up of Model X sales to miss the already lowered 2015 delivery guidance.

Must Read: Elon Musk and Tesla Outdo Themselves Again With the Model X

"There are a number of engineering challenges with the Model X; just as these engineering challenges significantly delayed the release of the X (which was originally scheduled to be released in early 2014), they will also prevent X production from adequately ramping, while

also inhibiting margins," Johnson wrote in the note.

Shares were down more than 3% in early trading, following a decline of more than 10% since the Model X was unveiled.

In an interview with German website Handesblatt, Musk said Apple had hired people Tesla had let go. "They have hired people we've fired," Musk said. "We always jokingly call Apple the 'Tesla Graveyard.' If you don't make it at Tesla, you go work at Apple. I'm not kidding."



(UPDATE: Musk took to Twitter to defend his comments made in the interview. "Yo, I don't hate Apple, Musk wrote. "It's a great company with a lot of talented people. I love their products and I'm glad they're doing an EV.")

Tesla delivered the first few Model X's at its event in late September, fully showing off the capabilities and features of the car.

Tesla recently lowered its 2015 delivery guidance to between 50,000 and 55,000 vehicles. As of the third quarter, Tesla had delivered 33,117 vehicles, leaving the company between approximately 17,000 and 22,000 units short of hitting that target.

Much of Tesla's valuation is built on its ability to start delivering the next-generation Model 3 in larger numbers, as noted by hedge fund manager Jim Chanos and others. Yet with the Model X having been pushed back several times because of how hard it is to build, according to Musk, the timeline on the Model 3 is being called into question.

"The Model X just doesn't cut it right now," said TheStreet's Jim Cramer. "The cult is fraying at the seams."