NEW YORK (TheStreet) - The Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF (DIA) is heading toward its sixth consecutive close in positive territory, but is nearly flat in Friday's trading session.

The real question is: can this rally last?

On CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime" show, Stephen Weiss, founder and managing partner of Short Hills Capital Partners, said the rally can last, but it's surprising how far it has bounced from the lows seen just last week.

Weiss reasoned that in order for the rally to continue, earnings will have to be the driver. (Earnings season kicked off on Thursday with Alcoa's (AA - Get Report) report.) While Weiss has bought some stocks, he is keeping cash on hand in case of a further decline.

Must Read: Consumers Are Finally Spending Their Gas Savings: Jim Cramer

Actual earnings won't matter as much as what management sees going forward, according to Jim Lebenthal, CFO and CIO of Lebenthal & Company. Earnings are a company's results over the past three months, but investors want to know what they can expect going forward, he said. He's not optimistic on financial stocks, but wants to hear what General Motors (GM - Get Report) and Apple (AAPL - Get Report) have to say about the global economy.

The rally has been very powerful in the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) , but stocks remain in a downtrend, explained Josh Brown, CEO and co-founder of Ritholtz Wealth Management. He doesn't expect earnings to be good, but it is nice to see beaten down sectors, like mining and energy, post a significant rally.

Michael Block, chief strategist at Rhino Trading Partners, made the case that now is not the time to buy stocks, because the fundamentals haven't improved all that much. Specifically, the oil sector still faces an oversupply issue. The rally could be short-lived as a result.

Lebenthal explained that many North American oil wells have been drilled nearly to completion, but were taken offline due to the low oil prices. As oil rallies, it only takes about a week to get these wells up and running. As a result, the price of oil is likely to have a lot of resistance, because producers can so quickly bring a lot of supply back online.

However, refinery stocks like Marathon Petroleum (MPC) and Valero Energy (VLO) should continue to do well, as should pipeline companies like Kinder Morgan (KMI) that merely transport oil and aren't directly impacted by oil prices.

There are a number of short-term catalysts driving up the price of oil, Weiss said. However, that seems unlikely to last in the intermediate term. He doesn't see much upside past $60 per barrel, and he suggested that investors take some profits at this point.

Brown also reiterated the notion that investors should take profits. The sector has seen a huge bounce, and earnings aren't likely going to be very good.