NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- China's Great Firewall has claimed another censorship victim. According to reports from The New York Times, Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) recently released News app has been blocked in China; no media content from the app can be accessed in the world's most populous nation. People attempting to use the app on the Chinese mainland now receive an error message reading: "Can't refresh right now. News isn't supported in your current region."

Even articles previously saved within the app are no longer accessible to users once they have entered China.

Apple has so far declined to comment on the block, but is clearly treading carefully, as China is now the company's second-largest market, accounting for sales of $13 billion last quarter alone.

Apple News joins a host of other U.S. websites that have been blocked by China's extensive censorship network. Authorities there are quick to react to any controversial political stories that may find their way into the public conversation. Bloomberg News, for example, was blocked in 2012 after reporting about the multimillion dollar assets owned by relatives of current Chinese president Xi Jinping. The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal were both added to the censorship list after publishing articles featuring revelations about the financial situation of the former Chinese Premier Wen Jaibao.

Must Read: Apple's News App Could Bring Publishers Enormous Traffic

Press visas have also become a point of contention after some top journalists were denied entry to China earlier this year. Beijing's censorship policy is often unclear to outside observers. Reuters was recently blocked for no apparent reason, but specific articles deemed sensitive have been censored in the past. Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) was also banned back in 2011, due to fears the social media app could be used by those seeking to stir public unrest; a very similar Chinese app, Weibo, is now one of the most frequently used apps on the mainland.

Must Read: Apple's News App Could Bring Publishers Enormous Traffic