NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty, in raising her price target on Apple (APPL) from $155 to $162, said wireless carriers "Verizon Communications (VZ - Get Report) and T-Mobile US (TMUS - Get Report) will likely get a boost from iPhone demand," according to a report by Investor's Business Daily.

In the U.S., "Verizon and T-Mobile are best positioned for postpaid subscriber growth in the next six months," Huberty said, according to the news site. "We view T-Mobile as the best positioned to increase its share of iPhone subscribers, while AT&T (T - Get Report) has the most exposure to the iPhone."

Huberty said that 60% of domestic iPhone owners plan to upgrade their device in the next 12 months.

Apple released its new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in September. Mobile carriers responded with a flurry of pricing promotions.

Must Read: 3 Stocks Dragging In The Technology Sector

Shares of T-Mobile closed Monday at $40.53, up by 2.3%. Verizon rose by less than 1%, closing at $44.30. AT&T finished the day $33.29, also up by less than 1%.

Shares of Apple closed at $111.58, a slight decline.

Meanwhile, shares of Sprint (S) , the nation's fourth-largest wireless carrier, closed Monday at $4.50, up by less than 1%. They dropped by 1.8% Friday, after a company executive provided more details about Sprint's restructuring plans. New CFO Tarek Robbiati said the company expects to slash about 10% in costs to save $2 billion.

Read TheStreet's report on why Sprint needs more than cash from Japan's SoftBank Group (SFTBY) , its majority shareholder.

Extravision Communications (EVC) stock soared by 16.2% Monday, closing at $7.80. The company, based in Santa Monica, Calif., operates television, radio and online properties that cater to Hispanic consumers in the U.S. and Mexico. The company owned 58 television stations and 49 radio stations at the end of 2014, according to Yahoo! Finance.

Entravision recently announced that it had signed a three-year agreement with the National Football League. "As part of the agreement, Entravision will air all Sunday Night Football games, Thanksgiving Day games, AFC playoff games and the Super Bowl," the company said.

Entravision shares hit their most recent high of $8.50 on Aug. 14. They were trading at $6.50 at the end of 2014.

Talk about diversification! PepsiCo (PEP) said Monday "it is working with a licensing partner to market a line of mobile phones and accessories in China in the next few months," Reuters reported.



But the food and beverage giant has no plans to get into the smartphone manufacturing business, a PepsiCo spokeswoman told Reuters by email.



"Available in China only, this effort is similar to recent globally licensed Pepsi products which include apparel and accessories," the spokeswoman said, according to the news service. She did not name the licensing partner or give any further details about the phone, Reuters said.