NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- If you want a new iMac, Apple (AAPL - Get Report) has you covered.

The Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple announced it was updating its iMac computers, bringing Retina 4K display to its 21.5 inch iMac and the Retina 5K display to every 27-inch iMac. In addition, the company also unveiled new accessories, including the Magic Keyboard, Magic Mouse 2 and Magic Trackpad 2. The new accessories come with rechargeable batteries and the new Magic Trackpad 2 integrates Force Touch interface to the desktop.

"From the first iMac to today, the spirit of iMac has never wavered - deliver the ultimate desktop experience with the latest technologies, gorgeous displays and cutting-edge designs," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing in a statement. "These are the most stunning iMacs we've ever made. With our gorgeous new Retina displays, more powerful processors and graphics and all-new Magic accessories, the new iMac continues to redefine the ultimate desktop experience."

Both desktop computers are available today on Apple's website, as well as the company's retail stores. The 21.5-inch iMac, which comes in three models, starts at $1,099, $1,299 and $1,499 for the Retina 4K display model. The 27-inch iMac starts at $1,799, $1,999 and $2,229, respectively.

Must Read: Amazon Fire TV Epic Fight With Google Chromecast and Apple TV Has No End In Sight

The new Magic Keyboard is available starting today for $99, while the Magic Mouse 2 costs $79 and the Magic Trackpad 2 costs $129.

The move comes at an interesting time for the PC market and Apple. In September, Apple refreshed almost its entire product lineup, showing off new iPhones, Apple TVs and iPads, but the iMac was conspicuous by its absence.

Research firm Gartner recently noted that worldwide PC shipments fell 7.7%, down to 73.7 million in the third quarter, with all major manufacturers experiencing a decline, except for Apple, which saw a slight uptick . A report from IDC, another research firm, was bleaker than Gartner, showing sales falling 10.8% year over year to 71 million units.

In the company's fiscal third-quarter, Apple shipped 4.8 million Macs, generating $6.03 billion in revenue, with both figures up 9% year-over-year respectively. Apple will report fiscal-fourth quarter earnings on Oct. 27.