NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are 10 things you should know for Thursday, Oct. 15:

1. -- U.S. stock futures were rising Thursday, following gains in Asia, as weak economic data from the U.S. suggested an interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve in 2015 appears more unlikely.



European stocks rose for the first time this week on Thursday.



2. -- The economic calendar in the U.S. on Thursday includes weekly Initial Jobless Claims at 8:30 a.m. EDT, the Consumer Price Index for September at 8:30 a.m., the Empire State Manufacturing Index for October at 8:30 a.m., and the Philadelphia Fed Index for October at 10 a.m.

3. -- U.S. stocks on Wednesday tried to make a go of posting gains but forces were working against them.

First, weaker retail sales released in the morning put consumer discretionary stocks in the hot seat. Then, the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart (WMT - Get Report) , reported worrying forecasts. The final nail in the coffin, the Federal Reserve's "Beige Book," showed a number of districts struggling from a slowdown in manufacturing associated with the stronger U.S. dollar.

Must Read: 5 Big Stocks to Trade for Big Gains

Benchmark indexes slumped in the afternoon session after briefly popping into the green twice earlier in the day. The S&P 500 fell 0.47% on Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 0.92%, and the Nasdaq fell 0.29%.

4. -- Streaming video service Netflix (NFLX - Get Report) reported Wednesday that it added 880,000 subscriptions in the third quarter, falling short of expectations for 1.25 million net additions. Netflix placed part of the blame for the shortfall on the introduction of new chip-based credit cards that prevented some potential customers from registering for the service.



Fewer-than-expected subscribers combined with new programming costs led to just $29 million in net profit, less than the $51.2 million expected by Wall Street. Revenue totaled $1.74 billion, also missing estimates.

5. -- Square filed for an initial public offering after it submitted a confidential filing in July. Square will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "SQ."

The company, which facilitates payments for small merchants, was launched in 2009 by Jack Dorsey, a co-founder of Twitter who was recently named Twitter's permanent CEO. There has been controversy over the fact that Dorsey will be leading both companies at once, let alone leading Square through the complicated IPO process.



Square's filing noted Dorsey's dual roles as a risk factor, admitting that "this may at times adversely affect his ability to devote time, attention, and effort to Square."



6. -- Valeant Pharmaceuticals (VRX - Get Report) received subpoenas from federal prosecutors seeking information related to how it prices drugs, distributes them and helps patients afford the medicines.



The subpoenas also seek information and documents from the Canada-based drug company regarding information it provided to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, The Wall Street Journal reported.



Valeant, which received the subpoenas recently, said they mostly requested information about the company's programs to help patients pay for its drugs. "The company is reviewing the subpoenas and intends to cooperate with the investigations," Valeant said in a statement.



7. -- Albertsons delayed its initial public offering on Wednesday but reports said the supermarket company was making plans to reattempt the deal on Thursday.



Albertsons delayed its IPO hours after Wal-Mart issued negative guidance. Albertsons had intended to raise as much as $1.95 billion in an initial public offering priced at between $23 and $26 a share.



CNBC reported Albertsons planned to "take a swing" at pricing its deal Thursday afternoon. CNBC, citing a someone familiar with the matter, said a share price of $18 might be the best underwriters could expect.



Must Read: 5 Big Stocks to Trade for Big Gains