NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Netflix (NFLX - Get Report) fell by more than 7% in after-hours trading Wednesday after the company said it had signed up fewer U.S. subscribers in the third quarter than it had anticipated. But the company's shares pulled back from their sharp descent and were down about 2% by late afternoon. Netflix shares closed Wednesday at $110.23, up by less than 1% during the regular trading session.

The company said that it earned $29 million during the quarter, less than $51.2 million expected by Wall street, on revenue that totaled $1.74 billion.

Read TheStreet's full report.

Intel (INTC - Get Report) shares rose by 2.4%, closing at $32.80, a day after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly profits and earnings, although demand for its chips remains slack. The chipmaker's data center business is seen as improving next year, Reuters reported.

Must Read: Netflix Is Spending Money Much Faster Than It's Making It

Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) shares rose by 1.1% to $29.38, a day after the company announced up to 336 jobs cuts. The company on Wednesday announced that Google (GOOGL - Get Report) executive Omid Kordestani would come aboard as its executive chairman, Reuters reported.

Apple (AAPL - Get Report) dropped by 1.4% Wednesday, closing at $110.21. The technology giant "could be facing up to $862 million in damages after a U.S. jury on Tuesday found the iPhone maker used technology owned by the University of Wisconsin-Madison's licensing arm without permission in chips found in many of its most popular devices," Reuters reported.

SanDisk (SNDK) jumped by 11.2% Wednesday, closing at $68.70. The company has hired a bank to explore a possible sale, Bloomberg News reported.

TripAdvisor (TRIP) shares soared by 25.5% to $83.72 after the company and Priceline Group (PCLN) announced "a strategic partnership whereby some of the Priceline Group's online travel brands will participate in TripAdvisor's instant booking platform."



"Within the Priceline Group, Booking.com will be the first brand to implement the partnership through its global network of accommodations, and in time Priceline Group brands Priceline.com and Agoda.com are likely to list inventory on the platform," the companies said in a release. "Development work has already begun to support the integration of Priceline Group hotel properties, which are expected to be available on the instant booking platform soon."

Priceline shares dropped by 2.5%, closing at $1,311.08.

IBM (IBM) announced two milestones for Watson Analytics, its natural language-based cognitive service that can provide instant access to powerful predictive and visual analytic tools for businesses.

Company spokeswoman Faye Abloeser said Watson Analystics has gained 500,000 users since its introduction less than a year ago.

"The company is also beefing up the services we offer via Watson Analytics by rolling out new data discovery and question-and-answer capabilities that will make it even easier for users to extract insights from their data," she said in an email.

IBM shares closed at $150.02, up less than 1%.