NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Some people have one hard job; some have two, and it can get complicated. Just ask Jack Dorsey.

Jack Dorsey is CEO of payments start-up Square. The company filed documentation with the SEC for an initial public offering this week, indicating plans to raise $275 million in the process (a placeholder figure that could change). Dorsey's name is mentioned on 47 occasions in the filing.

Dorsey is also the CEO of Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) , which is named five times in the Square IPO documentation -- and not always in the best light.

In fact, Dorsey's role as the social media company's chief executive is listed as a risk factor for potential Square investors.

Must Read: Twitter May Have a Friend In Steve Ballmer but No One Knows Just Yet

"Jack Dorsey, our co-founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer, also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Twitter," the filing reads. "This may at times adversely affect his ability to devote time, attention, and effort to Square."

As the CEO of one huge and very-public public company and a second that is huge by start-up standards and is about to be public, Dorsey is burning the candle at both ends -- a feat not for the faint of heart.

Twitter raised eyebrows when in early October it announced Dorsey's appointment as its permanent CEO. "A part-time CEO means you couldn't find someone full-time," said Charles Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance and professor at the University of Delaware. "It's generally considered a stop-gap."

Of course, Dorsey is no regular empty suit (in fact, he doesn't look the part at all, sporting a beard that not too long ago might have made more traditional business people nervous).

"This is not just a regular guy. He's a founder, he's heavily invested in the company, he's an intellectual leader in the area and in many other areas," said David Larcker, a professor of corporate governance at the Stanford University Graduate School of Management. "This is a special guy with a lot of the skills that they [Twitter] want."

Dorsey has perhaps calmed some anxieties by hitting the ground running at Twitter, laying off about 8% of its workforce and tapping a former Google (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) executive as its executive chairman.

"It's just not about Dorsey, it's about the team he surrounds himself with," Larcker said, adding that getting his ducks in a row and the right team in place could also make Dorsey's dual CEO-ship less onerous.

Nevertheless, running two companies -- especially as large and innovative as Twitter and Square -- is a risky business. Running one such firm, let alone two, is a 24/7 job, and investors could have reason to worry.

"Any time there's uncertainty over leadership, it's something for investors to be concerned about," Elson said.

"If you're an investor, you probably hold either Twitter or Square, maybe not both, so depending on where he spends his time, it can have an impact on the value of your investment," Larcker added.

But dorsey isn't the first chief executive to perform a balancing act in the business of company-running, and a handful of individuals have attempted the feat before him (to varying degrees of success). Here are five CEOs, past and present, who have also split their time as well -- and whose experiences Dorsey may want to keep in mind.