PHILADELPHIA (TheStreet) -- Remember Scrooge McDuck -- the wealthy cartoon character who was always tight with a buck?

He embodies the spirit of the Bogleheads, devotees of John C. Bogle -- Vanguard founder, index-fund inventor and the father of investing on the cheap.

During a three-day annual get-together outside Philadelphia, many Bogleheads converged to discuss how to save and invest, to share tips, and to listen to Jack Bogle himself unleash his opinions on the market, politics and what investors should expect.

The group coalesced in the late 1990s on Internet message boards, first at the Morningstar Web site, and then at a dedicated site, Bogleheads.org.

Must Read: Jack Bogle: Trump Is Wrong, ETFs Are Bogus and Foreign Investing Is Useless

The 220-some registered conference attendees visited Vanguard headquarters and were greeted by Chief Investment Officer Tim Buckley, among other honchos. A spokesman for Vanguard described the Bogleheads as "our biggest fans and our harshest critics."

Bogleheads.org is the anti-Reddit: the site is known for its civility, where many posters use their real names, and the confessions of financial mistakes generally meet encouragement and disinterested advice. And there's one big topic: how to save and invest money.

The site's ethos is do-it-yourself. It's built around the little guy looking to save for the future and not get rooked in the process. The philosophy is simple: costs matter in investing, and with a plan to save and invest deliberately, the average person can retire comfortably. And those plans don't need to be complicated. Taylor Larimore, one of the founders of the Bogleheads group, often writes in praise of the "majesty of simplicity."

The forum has been hugely successful. As of September, Bogleheads.org received up to 4 million hits a day, with up to 70,000 unique visitors daily, according to Mel Lindauer, president of the nonprofit John C. Bogle Center for Financial Literacy, and also a frequent financial writer and prolific poster on the site. More than 2.5 million posts have been made since the site debuted in 2007.

Lindauer said the site's mission is wide-ranging: "to educate all American investors."

The site also features tools for new investors who are just getting started. The Bogleheads Wiki, an online encyclopedia, is maintained in part by a site moderator who prefers to use her online handle, LadyGeek. She explained why she volunteers on the site: "This stuff is complicated, and you're messing with your life savings.... This is my way of paying back." The Wiki explains the finer points of the site's mission: to give investing advice inspired by Jack Bogle.

So why base the site on Jack Bogle? And why embrace Vanguard, surely the only financial company with a passionate fan base?