ENLARGE Illustration: Guy Shield

WHEN I FIRST SAW the “rose gold” iPhone, my initial thought was that it was very nice of Apple to come up with an option for the ladies. But to hear the Internet tell the story, men are huge fans. “The Rose Gold iPhone Is So Popular Among Dudes, It’s Now Referred To as Bros’ Gold,” trumpeted Complex. Seventeen and eOnline made similar proclamations. Reportedly, guys were lining up at Apple Stores specifically to snag the pink. On Reddit, men discussed their decision to buy the phone and debated the social costs. “My wife says she’ll divorce me if I get one,” said Kataxist. “My guy friends say best deal ever. lol…” Sam Sheffer, a 25-year-old creative producer at Mashable in New York, bought one because it was the first pink phone Apple has ever made. “It reminds me of a beautiful piece of jewelry,” he said.

For me, this was a strange idea. Men wearing pink once in awhile? Sure. But choosing a pink phone? A more or less permanent statement of identity, held at arm’s length for all the world to see, for roughly half your waking moments? Something didn’t quite compute.

The bias against pink runs deep in a lot of men of my generation. I grew up in the 1970s, when the official color/gender divide—pink is for girls and blue is for boys—was still the unchallenged law of the land. Hospitals issued blue caps and booties for boy babies, and pink ones for girl babies, scooting every child over to one or the other side of the divided highway forever, right at the snip of the umbilical cord. My mom gave birth twice more after me, and each time, when the new baby was brought home, I learned her gender from the pink cap encasing her still-forming skull.

So this pink-phones-for-men business kind of threw me for a loop. Was I the only one looking at this the wrong way? Was I stuck in the past?

Three More Ways to Rock Geek Pink ENLARGE The bumper on this sturdy phone case lets you get your pink on, while the translucent back lets your iPhone’s true color shine. Octane Pure Translucent Case, $30, incipio.com Photo: Incipio ENLARGE If you feel fickle, swap the pink-trimmed cover of this Bluetooth speaker for seven other colors. Soundlink Mini Bluetooth Speaker II, $200, and Pink Cover, $25, bose.com Photo: Bose ENLARGE These pink earbuds will connect you to your tunes and accessorize your blandest sweatshirt. An in-line mini-microphone and remote let you take a phone call during a weak moment in any playlist. Bagis Earbuds, $35, urbanears.com Photo: Bagis

Growing up, I knew that strong male icons sometimes embraced pink. John Wayne wore a pink shirt in “Rio Lobo.” John Cougar Mellencamp sang about little pink houses: not just for little girls but “for you and me.” Elvis wore lots of pink and even had a perfectly serviceable blue Cadillac painted pink. (Later, the “Pink Cadillac” would also become a Bruce Springsteen song and a Clint Eastwood movie.) But these guys, it seemed to me, were only using pink as a foil to demonstrate their toughness—saying, effectively, “That’s right, I’m so tough I can rock this.” Like Hulk Hogan wearing that pink tutu in “Mr. Nanny.” (You did see “Mr. Nanny,” right?)

Not until I came east for college, with an Arizona-normal mullet and roadie mustache, did I first start seeing the hue worn nonchalantly by regular guys. It was the era of the “preppy,” and a whole bunch of rich fellows, who could clearly afford to shop in the men’s section for standard-issue blues and browns, were nonetheless walking around in purples and yellows, and lime greens and pinks, and exotic blends like “plaid.” The preppy trend had its weirdnesses (looking at you, “Oxford Blues”), but it did make it possible for men to wear “casual pink.”

And today, we live in a world where “rose gold” is a viable phone and smartwatch color for men, where sales of premium rosé wines are soaring (up 52% in 2014 from the previous year, according to Nielsen), and where NFL players are sporting hot pink shoes, socks, armbands and towels. To be sure, the NFL’s annual love affair with Breast Cancer Awareness Month is a declaration of solidarity with women, not a general sartorial statement. But it doesn’t matter; I credit that monthlong juxtaposition of pink and football (in replays, in slow-mo, etc.) with removing any lingering objections to pink as a fashion choice for men.

Today, my two sons (aka blue-cap babies) think nothing of wearing pink. And as curious as I still find it, I’m glad: Why should a color be off-limits? I may never totally shake my personal bias, but I’m happy to have it die with my generation, along with a whole lot of other junk impressed on us as kids.

Could I myself ever upgrade to an iPhone the color of lipstick? I don’t know. The biases we form as children can masquerade as the laws of the universe and shape our perception for a long time. But that just means they need to be rooted out and challenged. Beer is not yucky, it turns out, and naps are actually pretty awesome. Maybe I should try it; maybe, the perfect statement a pink iPhone could make is no statement at all.

But I’m still not wearing yoga pants.