Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:

McCormick — The spice maker earned an adjusted 85 cents per share for its latest quarter, 2 cents short of estimates, though revenue beat forecasts. McCormick's results have been hurt by the strong dollar, and it predicted that fiscal 2015 sales growth would be cut by five percentage points as a result.

ConAgra — The food producer announced a $300 million restructuring plan which will eliminate about 1,500 jobs. ConAgra also said it would relocate its headquarters to Chicago from its current home in Omaha, Nebraska.

Gap — Standard & Poor's cut its outlook for the apparel retailer to negative due to the departure of Stefan Larsson as president of its Old Navy unit. Larsson has been named Chief Executive Officer of Ralph Lauren.

Microsoft, Google — The two companies have dismissed all outstanding patent disputes between them, and agreed to collaborate on "certain patent matters." There had been about 20 patent cases outstanding between the two.

Verisk Analytics — The provider of risk information to insurance companies and other industries will replace Joy Global in the S&P 500 after the close of trading on October 7. Joy will replace Thoratec Corporation in the S&P MidCap 400 following its acquisition by St. Jude Medical.

Diamond Foods — The snack maker will try to sell itself in pieces after failing to find a buyer for the entire company, according to the New York Post.

Wal-Mart — Wal-Mart will cut hundreds of jobs at is Arkansas headquarters in an effort to cut costs, according to multiple reports.

Northrop Grumman — The defense contractor won a $3.2 billion Air Force contract for development and maintenance of drones.

Deere — Deere reached a tentative agreement with the United Auto Workers on a six-year contract. The prior agreement between the union and the heavy equipment maker expired Thursday.

Fiat Chrysler — The automaker's workers have rejected a proposed four-year deal with the UAW, despite endorsement from union leaders. The exact final tally was not released.

Macerich — Macerich is forming two joint ventures that will hold eight of the mall owner's properties. The transactions will give Macerich about $2.3 billion in cash, which it will use to fund a special dividend, stock repurchases, and debt repayment.

General Electric — GE struck deals to sell two of its railroad services operations. Wells Fargo is the buyer of the railcar leasing business, while Marmon Holdings will buy GE's tank car fleet and repair facilities. Terms of the two deals were not disclosed.

United Parcel Service — The delivery service is investing in tech startup Ally Commerce, which sets up websites for direct sales to consumers.