NEW YORK, Oct. 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Bergdorf Goodman is collaborating with Legendary and Universal Pictures as part of the launch of the new film Crimson Peak, directed by Guillermo del Toro, it was announced today. A spectacular set of windows on Fifth Avenue, inspired by the film, will be revealed on Friday, October 9, 2015. The Gothic romance, which stars Mia Wasikowska, Jessica Chastain, Tom Hiddleston, Charlie Hunnam and Jim Beaver, opens October 16.

View photo .

The windows, which will encompass most of the Bergdorf Goodman's Fifth Avenue facade, represent the largest film collaboration ever undertaken at the store. The design team led by David Hoey, Senior Director of Visual Presentation, in association with designer Douglas Little, has incorporated a selection of original props and set pieces from the film. "We were privileged to have the opportunity to build our windows around some extraordinary architectural elements and objects created for Crimson Peak," Hoey said. "We were inspired by the craftsmanship of these pieces and their haunting ability to transport us into the mysterious world the filmmaker created."

Each of the five windows draws inspiration from a key moment in Crimson Peak. The use of forced perspective and other visual strategies will recall the film's distinctive visual style. The windows will suggest the deep hallways, darkened elevator shafts and cavernous ceilings in which the film's eerie plot unfolds.

The windows will also showcase a selection of looks from the Fall Collections, including Tom Ford, Valentino, Marc Jacobs, Givenchy and J. Mendel. "We hope that our mannequins will evoke the mysterious characters that inhabit Crimson Peak," Hoey said.

Linda Fargo, Senior Vice President, Fashion Office and Store Design, said, "We are delighted to celebrate Guillermo del Toro's artistic vision and partner with Crimson Peak in our windows."

ABOUT BERGDORF GOODMAN

A New York landmark since 1901, Bergdorf Goodman represents the global pinnacle of style, service and modern luxury. With its rich history of showcasing leading and emerging designers, the iconic store at 5th Avenue and 58th Street—the crossroads of fashion—is a singular destination for discerning customers around the world. BG.com expands on Bergdorf Goodman's heritage, showcasing coveted collections for men and women in an unparalleled online shopping experience. Bergdorf Goodman is part of Neiman Marcus Group.

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130128/LA49757LOGO

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bergdorf-goodman-rolls-out-the-red-carpet-for-legendary-and-universal-pictures-crimson-peak-from-the-imagination-of-director-guillermo-del-toro-300156324.html