General Electric, Co. (NYSE: GE) has been selling off a number of its subsidiaries, including the large financial division GE Capital. It is selling off these assets to scale back its business after issues with GE Capital threatened the parent company during the 2008 financial crisis.

In April 2015, GE announced it planned to divest around $200 billion in assets from GE Capital. The company wants to simplify its structure and use the revenues from the sales of divisions to return capital to shareholders. The company plans to return around $90 billion to investors through stock buybacks and dividends. This represents a move back to focusing on its core industrial businesses, which are the best-performing parts for the company.

GE is a massive company with a large market cap of around $252 billion as of September 2015. The company pays a respectable dividend yield of around 3.75%. GE has sold off around $78 billion of its assets through August 2015, and it is well on its way to meeting its goal by the end of 2016.

Sale of GE Capital

GE Capital was once the largest division of the company. After the 2008 financial crisis, the division was identified as a systemically important financial institution by the government. This designation increased the amount of regulation for the division, including submitting to banking stress tests, maintaining greater capital requirements and adding independent directors to the board of directors. The company wished to avoid the costs and difficulty of complying with the new regulations and decided to sell off the assets. The Federal Reserve gave GE a reprieve through 2018 from complying with the heightened requirements in the wake of its announcement to downsize.

GE is selling off portions of GE Capital to various buyers. It sold its online deposit platform, $8 billion in deposits and $8 billion in brokered certificates of deposits (CDs) to Goldman Sachs. The deal gives Goldman Sachs 140,000 retail banking customers. This is an unusual move for Goldman Sachs, which usually focuses on high-net-worth individuals.

GE further sold most of its real estate assets to Wells Fargo and private equity firm Blackstone Group for around $23 billion. These varied assets included apartments, factories and even commercial loans. Wells Fargo acquired around $9 billion in commercial real estate loans in the transaction.

GE sold its private equity lending business to the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for around $12 billion. The Sponsor Finance division helps buyout firms line up lending for their transactions. The chief business of the division is GE Antares, which arranges high-interest loans. Canada Pension manages the retirement accounts of 18 million Canadians.

Vehicle Fleet Assets

GE also sold off the majority of its fleet-management business to Element Financial Corp. for around $6.9 billion. Element obtained fleet assets in the United States, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand as part of the transaction. GE Capital Fleet Services leases around 1.5 million cars and trucks for mid- and large-cap companies for clients such as Hewlett-Packard. The deal includes transfer of employees, intellectual property, offices and systems.

Health Care Finance Lending

In August 2015, GE announced it was selling its health care finance division to the credit card lender Capital One Financial. Capital One is paying $9 billion for the business. The sale includes health care loans totaling $8.5 billion. Capital One outbid other potential suitors in an auction. The deal expands Capital One’s small health care lending operation.

The unit provides direct loans to health care product and service companies. It also includes real estate loans to the owners of assisted living facilities, nursing homes and medical practices. The loans include financing for acquisitions, refinancing and working capital. GE sold around $600 million in the division’s real estate equity investments to a separate unidentified buyer. GE is retaining its financing businesses related to its industrial operations. This includes a division that finances the sale of health-care equipment to customers of the sold business.