Investors who like to play dividend stocks do so for one reason: to get an (almost!) guaranteed return despite the level of stock appreciation. It is akin to income received from holding bonds. The best dividend stocks have three basic characteristics. First, the stocks go up over time; second, they provide a decent yield; and third, the company consistently raises its distributions over time. While a strong history of raising dividends is desirable and serves as a proxy for future behavior, the capital position of the company is equally important because it determines the ability of the company to pay its dividend now and in the future. Several companies fit the bill on one or two of the characteristics, but few meet all the requirements. General Electric Co. (GE) is a company that fit the bill in the past, and the question is whether it still does.

GE’s Dividend History

GE has a history of consecutive dividend payments since 1899, and it had increased its payout for 32 years in a row. There are only two times GE cut its dividend – once during the Great Depression in 1938 and once during the financial crisis in 2009. Both of those occurrences are similar in that they represent uncommon periods, the worst financial crises in America’s history.

GE, a Dividend Play?

GE’s dividend history, along with the company's plans to divest some of its segments, bodes well for future payouts. In April, the company said it would sell GE Capital, and in September, it announced a plan to sell GE Asset Management. The sales are part of GE's effort to refocus on its industrial businesses – manufacturing jet engines, power turbines and other big-ticket industrial equipment. Part of the benefit from the sales comes in the form of GE's plan to return $90 billion to investors by 2018 through share buybacks and dividends. The sale of the financial arms also reduces GE’s need to hold the required high cash reserves to comply with regulations that were put in place as a result of the financial crisis. The cash-reserve requirement was one of the causes for the large dividend cut in 2009.

These moves appear on target for a strong dividend play, but let’s see how GE fulfills the three characteristics of a strong dividend stock stated above. First, the sale of the financial units and the planned return to shareholders should benefit the stock. A more targeted industrial focus without the distractions from the financial units should translate into a higher stock price. Second, the current dividend yield on the stock is 3.6%, an attractive yield, but one that should go up with the plan of returning $90 billion to shareholders. Third, GE’s history of 32 consecutive years of dividend increases that ended in 2009 and the company’s stated desire to continue with that tradition set the expectations for continued increases.

The Bottom Line

GE is a company in transition, as it transforms itself into an industrial conglomerate from a conglomerate of somewhat unrelated businesses. The transition should not only improve GE's business portfolio, but also translate into a higher stock price. Together with a strong focus on its shareholders, the result should be a continuation of a strong and growing dividend that appears to be sustainable. GE possesses the three characteristics of the best dividend stocks.