Thomas Edison looked into the future and saw promise. "What seems impossible today may not be tomorrow," he said. Because he dared imagine the impossible, we enjoy movies and records and electric light as well as a host of other conveniences.

All told, the inventor known as the Wizard of Menlo Park held over 1,000 patents, and in many ways we live in a world he invented.

Edison (1847-1931) seemed an unlikely genius. Born in Milan, Ohio, and raised in Port Huron, Mich., he had only a few months of formal education. Because he daydreamed at school, his teacher mistakenly called him addled.

Thomas Edison went from Ohio to Michigan to Newark, N.J., where he created team inventing. View Enlarged Image

When his mother heard, she withdrew him from class and home-schooled him.

Dashing Ahead

Thomas was a voracious reader and soon demonstrated an entrepreneurial streak.

He obtained exclusive rights to sell newspapers on the rail line in Port Huron. He also learned how to operate a telegraph, a technology that fascinated him.

Tinkering constantly, he came up with telegraph-related inventions, such as an improved stock ticker.

Edison's Keys Saw a future totally unlike his present.

Overcame: Skepticism of many, including investors.

Lesson: Don't let a temporary setback stop you.

"We have merely scratched the surface of the store of knowledge. . .. I believe that we are now on the verge of vast discoveries — discoveries so wondrously important that they will upset the present trend of human thought and start it along completely new lines."

He received his first patent at age 22, for an electric vote recorder.

It didn't catch on, teaching him a valuable lesson: "Anything that won't sell, I don't want to invent. Its sale is proof of utility and utility is success."

Still, his ability to make products earned him a positive reputation and financial backers.

He opened a factory and laboratory in Newark, N.J., in 1870 and soon created a concept that became known as team inventing.

He'd sketch out an idea on a piece of paper and give it to his assistants to further develop — fast.

"He didn't like failure for failure's sake," noted Lisa Gitelman, a former editor of the Thomas A. Edison Papers Project at Rutgers University and the author of "Thomas Edison and Modern America." "But he understood that failing is a necessary part of the pathway to success, at least when it comes to technological innovation."

Edison said: "If I find 10,000 ways something won't work, I haven't failed. I am not discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is often a step forward."

Consider that in 1877, a year after he moved into his Menlo Park, N.J., lab, he developed a transmitter that improved the range and quality of the telephone. To do so, he tested 2,000 materials.

Similarly, his search for the perfect lightbulb filament involved testing 1,600 possibilities.

As he famously said, "Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration."