Silicon Valley stalwarts Tesla Motors (NASDAQ:TSLA), Facebook (NASDAQ:FB), Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) and Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) lined up to meet with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his two-day tour of the area, just days after Chinese President Xi Jinping met with top U.S. CEOs in Seattle.

Last week, ahead of his U.S. visit, Modi signed off on a $2.5 billion deal with Boeing (NYSE:BA) to buy Apache and Chinook helicopters. He also met with Lockheed Martin (NYSE:LMT) CEO Marillyn Hewson and IBM (NYSE:IBM) Chairman and CEO Virginia Rometty last week in the U.S., along with other top corporate chiefs.

Over the weekend, Modi met Apple CEO Tim Cook as well as Tesla CEO Elon Musk and toured the electric automaker's Fremont, Calif., factory. He also toured Facebook's Menlo Park, Calif., campus and chatted with CEO Mark Zuckerberg.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi View Enlarged Image

Modi, who has been encouraging U.S. tech companies to invest in India, agreed to deals with Google, which plans to launch free Wi-Fi in 500 of India's train stations, and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT), which agreed to provide low-cost broadband to half a million Indian villages. Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM) said it will invest up to $150 million in Indian startup companies.

Shares of Apple closed down 2% in the stock market today, along with other tech shares and the broader market. Tesla fell 3.3%, Google 2.5%, Microsoft 1.5%, Facebook 3.8% and Qualcomm 1.3%. Boeing dropped 2.2% while Lockheed slid 1.8%. Twitter fell 0.2%.

Silicon Valley features several prominent India-born executives, including Google's Sundar Pichai and Microsoft's Satya Nadella.

The first Indian leader to visit the U.S. West Coast in more than 30 years, Modi's arrival contrasted with Xi's Seattle visit. Leaders at Google and Twitter (NYSE:TWTR), whose services are blocked by China's government, weren't invited to meet with Xi.

Modi is scheduled to meet with President Obama on Monday.

Modi's 2014 election as prime minister of the world's largest democracy — and Asia's third-largest economy — heralded hope that he could cut through the red tape that so many businesses find stifling in India.

Follow Ciaran McEvoy on Twitter @IBD_CMcEvoy and on Facebook.