SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

Yahoo Inc. (YHOO) today made a number of product announcements, primarily in the area of communications.

This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015005560/en/

This month marks Yahoo Mail’s 18th anniversary, and the company is celebrating that occasion by introducing a new Yahoo Mail app that is fast, intuitive and beautifully designed. Available on iOS (iPhone and iPad) and Android, the new app comes with a number of features, including smarter search, contacts management and rich compose.

Most people have an email account from more than one provider. So starting today, Yahoo Mail users can connect and manage their email accounts from Outlook.com, Hotmail and AOL Mail, right from Yahoo Mail on mobile and desktop. Once connected, users can access Yahoo Mail’s features across all their mailboxes.

“Email is the most prevalent way people communicate online. However, what we want from our inbox is evolving. Mobile use requires a faster and smarter inbox,” said Jeff Bonforte, senior vice president of communication products at Yahoo. “Both of these needs are at the center of our new app.”

In addition to speed, smarts and support for multiple mailboxes, the new app marks the introduction of Yahoo Account Key – a more secure and simple alternative to the old password. This new feature simplifies the sign-in process with a secure and easy-to-use interface to access a Yahoo account with the tap of a button.

“Passwords are difficult to remember and secondary sign-in verification is inconvenient and confusing,” said Dylan Casey, vice president of product management at Yahoo. “Earlier this year we launched on-demand passwords using an SMS code. We’re now taking a major leap towards a password-free future with the launch of Yahoo Account Key, which uses push notifications to give users simple and secure access using their mobile device.”

More Information & Availability

The new Yahoo Mail app is available in the Apple App Store to all global users today, and rolling out to Android users in Google Play starting today. Additional information can be found on the Yahoo Tumblr.

The ability to manage multiple mailboxes is rolling out globally today in the Yahoo Mail app. The desktop experience is available for U.S. English users today and will be coming soon to users outside of the U.S. The Yahoo Mail Tumblr includes additional details.

Yahoo Account Key is available globally today. Visit the Yahoo Tumblr for more information.

Access to the press kit is available here.

About Yahoo

Yahoo is a guide focused on informing, connecting and entertaining our users. By creating highly personalized experiences for our users, we keep people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the world. In turn, we create value for advertisers by connecting them with the audiences that build their businesses. Yahoo is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, and has offices located throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC) and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. For more information, visit the pressroom.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015005560/en/

MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015005560/en/