Blaming Congress' impasse on the Export-Import Bank, General Electric (NYSE:GE) said that it will move 500 U.S. jobs, some of which are deep in the heart of Texas, overseas to Europe and China in order to avoid losing business to foreign companies.

The Lone Star State is one of the losers in GE's announcement Tuesday, as the U.S.-based jobs will be shipped from Texas, South Carolina, New York and Maine to France, Hungary and China. Lawmakers from Texas also have been vocal critics of the Ex-Im Bank.

GE says that it is bidding on $11 billion in projects, primarily in developing nations that won't entertain projects without a credit agency's backing. The Fairfield, Conn.-based company said that it had reached an agreement with the French export credit agency, Compagnie Française d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur, for a line of credit for certain power projects. As a result, about 400 U.S. jobs will be moved overseas, including jobs going from Texas to France.

Another 100 U.S. jobs will be moved from a facility outside Houston to Hungary and China so the company can access export credit for aviation gas turbine customers.

"We do not make today's announcements lightly, and in fact, have done everything in our power to avoid making these moves at all," said GE Vice Chairman John Rice in a statement, "but Congress left us no choice when it failed to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank this summer."

On July 1, the U.S. became the only major world economy without an export credit agency when Congress allowed the Export-Import Bank's charter to expire. Conservative Republicans argue that the agency was a conduit for crony capitalism, benefiting big corporations such as GE and Boeing (NYSE:BA) on the taxpayer dime.

Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, who chairs the House Financial Services Committee, has long been an outspoken opponent of the Ex-Im Bank. In response, GE reportedly has ruled out Dallas — a part of which Hensarling serves in Congress — as a possible location for its new headquarters.

General Electric shares rose 2.1% on the stock market today, closing at 25.30. GE stock has been trading steadily below its 50- and 200-day moving averages.

Last month, Boeing reportedly told its workers that it is mulling several hundred layoffs in its satellite business through the end of this year, in part due to uncertainty over funding from the Ex-Im Bank. In July, commercial satellite provider ABS cancelled a large satellite contract with Boeing because of uncertainty about the Ex-Im Bank's status.

The bank, founded in 1934, stopped accepting new loans after its charter expired. In July, 64 senators voted in favor of an amendment to renew the bank's charter, but the House of Representatives wasn't on board.

President Barack Obama has called for renewing the agency's charter. But as a presidential candidate in 2008, Obama called the Ex-Im Bank "little more than a fund for corporate welfare."

Follow Ciaran McEvoy on Twitter @IBD_CMcEvoy and on Facebook.