General Electric (NYSE:GE) will receive from the United Kingdom up to $12 billion in export financing, which will support up to 1,000 energy jobs in that country.

The Fairfield, Conn.-based industrial giant said its agreement with the U.K.'s export credit agency will support confirmed and potential orders in markets such as Brazil, Ghana, India and Mozambique.

Since the charter of the Export-Import Bank, the U.S. export credit agency, expired in July, GE has been vocal and active about seeking foreign export credit.

GE CEO Jeff Immelt's statement Thursday announcing the U.K. deal was a thinly veiled shot at Congress, which remains stalled on renewing the Ex-Im Bank's charter.

"In today's competitive environment, countries that have a functional export credit agency will attract investment," Immelt said. "Export finance is a critical tool we use to support our customers. Without it, we can't compete against foreign competitors who enjoy ECA financing from their governments. We are fortunate to have the support of UK Export Finance, one of the most flexible ECAs in the world. The U.K. is pro-export and pro-manufacturing."

General Electric shares closed down 0.9% to 24.91 on the stock market today.

The Export-Import Bank, founded in 1934, is a federal agency that finances and insures foreign buyers of U.S. goods and services. But its critics, including prominent House Republicans, argue that it subsidizes giant corporations such as GE and Boeing (NYSE:BA) at taxpayer expense.

Earlier this month, GE announced it was moving 500 U.S. jobs from Texas, South Carolina, Maine and New York to France, Hungary and China because of the lack of new export credit financing in America.

Ex-Im Bank critics argue that GE has plenty of capital on hand to finance deals and already had promised the French government that it would create 1,000 jobs in France in exchange for its approval of GE's acquisition of Alstom's energy unit.

Follow Ciaran McEvoy on Twitter @IBD_CMcEvoy and on Facebook.