China search leader Baidu (NASDAQ:BIDU) and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) announced a strategic partnership Thursday that makes Baidu.com and Baidu Search the default homepage and search engine for the Microsoft Edge browser in the new Windows 10.

Baidu will also help Microsoft distribute its Windows 10 operating system in China, including applications for search, video, the cloud and maps for Windows 10. Microsoft released Win 10 on July 29.

"We consider the partnership a modest positive for Baidu. In China, default search engine of browsers usually is a large deal, as Internet users in China tend to use default search engine when they launch browsers," wrote W.R. Hambrecht/Summit Research analyst Henry Guo in a research report Thursday.

The China desktop search market has remained stable during the past several months, Guo said, with Baidu having roughly 70% market share. No. 2 Qihoo 360 Technology's (NYSE:QIHU) share is in the low 20% range, Guo said.

"We don't expect Baidu and Microsoft partnership to have material impact on desktop search competitive landscape over the next couple of years," he said.

Guo said Windows 10 is unlikely to have "strong traction in China over the next several years, mainly due to competition and securities issues."

He said a recent study of China internet users found that Google's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Chrome had 35.4% of browser market share last month, up from 31.6% in December 2014.

Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8.0 and Internet Explorer 9.0 had 22.6% and 6.6% share, respectively, down from 27.4% and 7.4% last December.

Security concerns "may further complicate Windows 10's rapid adoption in China," said Guo, who added that China's government "doesn't allow government (agencies) to update operation systems" beyond Windows 7, "on the concern of security."

In a down day for the overall market, Baidu stock fell by a fraction in afternoon trading in the stock market today, near 132. Baidu stock has fallen 42% this year.

Shares of Microsoft and Qihoo also were down a fraction Thursday afternoon. Microsoft is down 8% this year and Qihoo is down 20%.

RELATED:

Qihoo Up As Q2 Tops; Can It Stay A China Tech Stock?

Connect with Michele Chandler on Twitter @IBD_MChandler and Facebook .