The U.S. economy added just 142,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department said Friday. That was far less than the 203,000 expected. Along with a big August downward revision and weak wage data, the news sent U.S. stocks tumbling and raised questions about whether the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates by the end of the year.

The unemployment rate held at 5.1%, the lowest since April 2008. That's partly due to a low labor force participation, which fell to 62.4%, the lowest since October 1977. A healthy labor market should be luring in workers.

Along with September's weak jobs figure, August payroll growth was revised down by a whopping 59,000 to 136,000. That's the worst back-to-back employment gain since December 2013-January 2014.

Meanwhile average hourly earnings actually fell by a penny to $25.09, while the workweek edged down to 33.6 hours. Average hourly earnings once again rose 2.2% vs. a year earlier. But weekly earnings climbed just 1.9%, the lowest in 18 months and down from 2.8% in February. Lower gas prices are boosting consumers' real spending power, but that didn't translate into strong hiring.

Retail and construction jobs rose, reflecting a relatively insulated domestic economy, while manufacturing lost ground. That followed the ISM manufacturing index, which showed activity barely advancing, with the export index at the worst level since the tail end of the recession. That reflects a strong dollar and weak overseas economies.

Caterpillar (NYSE:CAT) late last month said it would cut 10,000 jobs. China's slowdown has hit demand for Caterpillar's mining and construction equipment. General Electric (NYSE:GE) has been busy trumpeting moving jobs out of the U.S. General Electric and Boeing have been vocal critics of Congress' decision not to renew the Export-Import Bank's charter. Not coincidentally, GE and Boeing (NYSE:BA) are major beneficiaries of the Ex-Im bank.

Oil's renewed drop below $50 a barrel also may be weighing on equipment makers.

The Dow industrials, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all sold off at Friday's open, but they rallied back for solid gains. Meanwhile, the 10-year Treasury yield fell below 2%, on track for a 5-month closing low. The dollar retreated, continuing a recent downward trend as investors push back expectations for a Fed rate "liftoff."

The Fed still has two more meetings in 2015, later this month and again in December. Friday's jobs report seems to rule out an October hike, with more Wall Street firms doubting that any tightening will occur before 2016.

Follow Ed Carson on Twitter @IBD_ECarson and on Facebook.