General Electric (NYSE:GE) might be the only buyer that can afford Halliburton's (NYSE:HAL) assets, after Weatherford International (NYSE:WFT) decided not to raise extra capital.

Late Monday, Weatherford canceled plans for a $1 billion stock and debt offering, but said it will still deliver positive free cash flow this year and still has "ample liquidity."

But the oilfield services company likely won't have enough cash to buy the drill bit and drilling-services business Halliburton has to sell for antitrust regulators to approve its Baker Hughes (NYSE:BHI) buyout. According to an earlier report from Bloomberg, Nabors Industries (NYSE:NBR) was also interested in the unit.

Jefferies analyst Brad Handler said the offering's cancelation was good news for Weatherford.

"We acknowledge the 'on paper' benefit of adding drill bits and upgrading Weatherford's directional drilling capabilities/platform and that Weatherford's global footprint points to meaningful synergies," he wrote in a note. "Yet more important for us was the risk of further dilution for equity holders."

Weatherford shares jumped 10.7% to close at 9.71 in the stock market today. GE ticked up 0.1%, and Halliburton ended the day flat, while rival Schlumberger (NYSE:SLB) lost 0.4%. Baker Hughes shares dipped 0.8%, and Nabors fell 1.7%.

GE has been expanding its oil and gas segment as part of its focus on core industrial businesses while shedding its banking and finance assets. In 2013, GE completed its purchase of oilfield pump maker Lufkin Industries for $3.3 billion.

The Department of Justice is reportedly complicating the Halliburton-Baker Hughes merger by requiring Halliburton to sell the $7.5 billion in assets it needs to offload to pass antitrust regulations to a single buyer, according to the New York Post.

Lower oil prices have put pressure on oilfield service providers to cut costs to stay competitive. Late Monday, Halliburton confirmed it has laid off some of its workforce in Williston, N.D., but didn't disclose numbers.

Follow Gillian Rich on Twitter @IBD_GRich.