A string of positive announcements by Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) led Cantor Fitzgerald to reiterate a buy rating on the social networking giant. Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Youssef Squali in a research note highlighted untapped monetization potential of various Facebook platforms as a reason for his buy rating, with a price target of 105. They include its photo-sharing app Instagram and messaging apps Messenger and WhatsApp.

"Facebook remains our top pick in the Internet space based on 1) Facebook's position as the largest/most-engaging Internet platform, 2) the ongoing shift of ad dollars to mobile/social, and 3) a massive video opportunity," Squali wrote.

Facebook stock was up fractionally near 91 in afternoon trading on the stock market today. The stock is off about 9% from its all-time high of 99.24 on July 21. Facebook has a strong IBD Composite Rating of 98, meaning it has outperformed 98% of all other stocks based on selected ratings.

On Wednesday, Facebook announced an aggressive expansion of Instagram, saying that ads would be rolled out to 30 additional countries. Instagram is still a small revenue source for Facebook, but analysts estimate that its sales could exceed $1 billion in 2016.

"Facebook has been testing ads on Instagram on a controlled basis for about two years, but yesterday's announcement marks a much larger push for Instagram's self-serve platform," Squali wrote.

Facebook is also testing new options for video monetization with the 40 million small and midsize companies that have created Facebook pages. This includes a new layout for mobile devices.

"We believe this move strengthens Facebook as a mobile solution for local businesses, and should help it capture incremental local ad dollars moving online," Squali wrote.

Facebook remained the most popular app on smartphones in July, with nearly three-fourths of the app audience downloading it. The firm also holds the No. 2 spot with its Facebook Messenger and the No. 9 spot with Instagram. Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) holds five of the top 15 spots, and Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) has two of the top 15.

Last month, Facebook unveiled a personal virtual assistant on its Messenger platform that can help users with everything from making reservations to buying gifts and doing other tasks. The new service puts Facebook in competition with Apple and its Siri virtual assistant, and with Google Now and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) Cortana.

Facebook competes with Apple, Google, Microsoft and others to attract more advertisers. But Facebook has taken a cautious approach to adding ads, looking to maintain user satisfaction.

Follow Brian Deagon on Twitter: @IBD_BDeagon.