Yahoo (NASDAQ:YHOO) stock rebounded on Tuesday after the Web portal said it was plowing ahead with the proposed spinoff of its stake in China giant Alibaba (NYSE:BABA) by the end of the year, despite the risk that the deal might not be tax-free.

Yahoo made its announcement in a filing late Monday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Yahoo was up more than 3% in midday trading in the stock market today, near 28.50, after rising higher in the morning. Still, Wall Street's concern over the stamina of the company's core business has taken its toll and Yahoo stock has declined 44% since the start of the year.

Going ahead with the spinoff plan without a tax-free guarantee means "there is now the risk that anything up to 30% of the value of the Alibaba investment may go to the IRS rather than shareholders of Yahoo," wrote Edison Investment Research analyst Richard Windsor in a Tuesday research note.

"The reasonable move would be to put the transaction on hold until there is clarity on how it will be treated for tax, as this has the best outlook for preserving value for shareholders," he said in the note. "The problem is that for the last two years, there has been so little progress at Yahoo other than the Alibaba investment and . .. the result is a company that feels under pressure to deliver something to investors even if that means that a large portion of that value is lost."

Yahoo also received a price target cut on Tuesday from Mizuho Securities, which lowered Yahoo's price target to 40 from 43 while maintaining a buy rating on Yahoo stock.

"Given recent Internal Revenue Service comments that any future guidance issued would not apply retroactively to transactions completed prior to the issuance of such guidance, we now use a 50% probability that the IRS will force Yahoo to pay taxes (down from 70%) and a 50% probability that the IRS won't (up from 30%). However, it is too early to tell which way the IRS will decide on this issue," wrote Mizuho Securities analyst Neil Doshi in a report on Tuesday.

Assuming a 45% tax rate and illiquidity discount, Doshi said, "this results in a total valuation of $23.8 billion, or $25 per share."

Doshi added that Yahoo can still decide to cancel the spinoff transaction.

The Yahoo board's announcement that it is plowing ahead to complete the spinoff in Q4 as originally planned comes two weeks after the IRS notified the company that it would not grant Yahoo's request for a private letter rulingsaying that the spinoff meets the agency's active trade or business requirement. Now that determination will need to be made after the spinoff transaction has taken place.