NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stocks extended big gains into the final hour of trading Monday, putting the S&P 500 on track for its longest winning streak this year. The benchmark index has gained more than 5% over the past five days.

On Monday, the S&P 500 was up 1.9%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 1.9%, and Nasdaq climbed 1.6%.

Crude oil spiked on hopes China will introduce even more monetary stimulus in order to prop up its economy. The World Bank released its forecast on Monday that China's economy would grow 7% this year but see a gradual slowdown over the next two years. China's GDP has averaged 8.6% since 2010.

West Texas Intermediate crude closed 1.6% higher at $46.26 a barrel on hopes potential stimulus would revitalize oil demand from the world's second-largest energy consumer. However, any further upside was limited after Saudi Arabia said it would cut the price of crude deliveries by $1.70 a barrel.

Must Read: 5 Big Stocks to Trade for Big Gains

The energy sector was the best performer on markets. Exxon Mobil (XOM - Get Report) , Chevron (CVX - Get Report) , Kinder Morgan (KMI - Get Report) , ConocoPhillips (COP - Get Report) and Royal Dutch Shell (RDS.A - Get Report) were all sharply higher, while the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE) added 3.3%.

Biotech stocks failed to join in on the rally again Monday as investors continued to flee health care after Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton two weeks ago vowed to address industry "price gouging." Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY) , Eli Lilly (LLY) , Biogen (BIIB) , and Teva Pharmaceutical (TEVA) were among the worst performers, while the iShares NASDAQ Biotechnology Index ETF (IBB) fell 1%.

General Electric (GE) led the Dow higher after activist investor Nelson Peltz and his hedge fund Trian Fund Management disclosed a $2.5 billion stake, the largest holding in the fund's history. Trian will hold 98.5 million GE shares. The fund has asked GE to increase cost-cutting efforts and possibly offload more of its finance assets. GE shares added 4.5%.

Twitter (TWTR) named co-founder Jack Dorsey as its permanent CEO after months of speculation. Dorsey was the frontrunner after serving as interim chief executive since former CEO Dick Costolo stepped down in July. Dorsey will step down as chairman but will remain on the board. Shares were up nearly 6%.

American Apparel (APP) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in Delaware. The teen clothing retailer had previously said in August that it had doubts it would be able to stay in business. Stores will remain open while the company seeks approval for its restructuring plans from the courts.

Google (GOOGL) officially changed its name to Alphabet on stock markets Monday. Alphabet is the parent company of Google as well as its other tech businesses. The change in corporate structure will not change the ticker symbols on the Nasdaq.

Potash Corp. (POT) was up more than 2% after it withdrew an $8.8 billion takeover offer for German-based salt producer K+S AG, which had previously rejected Potash's offer of 41 euros a share in May. Potash said that a decline in commodity markets had made the pursuit unviable.

Services growth slowed in September to 56.9 from 59 in August, according to the Institute for Supply Management. The reading came in below economists' estimates of 57.5. The report showed that the domestic economy is experiencing challenges outside of lower energy prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar.

The United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations reached a deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the largest regional trade agreement in history. The deal would unite 40% of the world's economy and lower import tariffs and other trade barriers between countries. The deal, eight years in the making, still needs to pass Congress.