NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of General Electric (GE - Get Report) are higher by 0.59% to $27.46 on Wednesday morning, after the industrial conglomerate announced it's creating a new company that will house its developing energy business.

This "first of its kind" energy company, known as Current, will integrate GE's LED, solar, energy storage and electric vehicle businesses with its Predix platform. The move is designed to identify and deliver the most cost effective, efficient energy solutions customers require.

"Current combines GE's products and services in energy efficiency, solar, storage, and onsite power with our digital and analytical capabilities to provide customers - hospitals, universities, retail stores, and cities - with more profitable energy solutions," GE CEO Jeff Immelt said in a statement.

Current is expected to start with over $1 billion in revenue as well as build on GE's legacy in energy.

GE has been working to rid itself of some of its divisions in order to go back to its roots as a industrial company.

"The creation of a new company within GE reinforces our commitment to take energy to the next level, focusing on custom outcomes for our commercial and industrial customers, municipalities and utility partners, and delivering a platform that can be upgraded as technology advancements are made," Immelt added.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates GENERAL ELECTRIC CO as a Hold with a ratings score of C+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) a HOLD. The primary factors that have impacted our rating are mixed - some indicating strength, some showing weaknesses, with little evidence to justify the expectation of either a positive or negative performance for this stock relative to most other stocks. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, good cash flow from operations and expanding profit margins. However, as a counter to these strengths, we also find weaknesses including feeble growth in the company's earnings per share, deteriorating net income and generally higher debt management risk.

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: