Yahoo! Inc. YHOO recently announced that it is expanding its data center in Quincy, Washington, to meet the growing demand for Internet and data storage. The extended data center is scheduled to open next summer.



Yahoo! is stepping up its investments in data centers in the area. The company had opened this data center in 2007 and the extension is expected to add about 300,000 square feet to the facility. Such large-scale expansion will also create additional positions.



IT majors usually invest in cities like Quincy because of factors like tax incentives, new talent and abundant renewable energy sources.



Meanwhile, the growing demand for cloud computing and Internet is in turn propelling demand for data centers. Market research firm IDC predicts that the cloud market will skyrocket 130% to $43.0 billion in 2016. Data centers include large banks with computer servers that process Internet searches, emails, videos as well as other such services.



Apart from Yahoo!, several tech companies including the likes of Apple AAPL, Facebook FB and Google GOOGL are increasingly investing in data centers. These technology warehouses are witnessing strength as video streaming, smartphones and apps require hard drives to run them.



In the last reported second quarter, Yahoo!’s second-quarter adjusted numbers missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate. However, GAAP revenue of $1.24 billion was up 1.4% sequentially and 14.7% year over year. Excluding traffic acquisition cost (TAC), net revenue was flat sequentially, up 0.4% year over year and 1.2% higher than the Zacks Consensus Estimate.



Currently, Yahoo! has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report >>

Information Technology

Finance Trading

data center

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report