NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Volatility returned to the markets on Thursday as investors eagerly awaited a speech from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen that could reveal clues about when rates may be hiked.

Stocks made a stunning recovery in the final hour of trading Thursday, rebounding from a drop of more than 1% to close only modestly lower. On the day, the S&P 500 slipped 0.33%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.46%, and the Nasdaq also dropped 0.38%. The Volatility Index, otherwise known as the 'Fear Index,' spiked 3.9% to 22.99, indicating that investors remain unsure of the direction of monetary policy.

Yellen will cap off the day with a speech at the University of Massachusetts at 5 p.m. EDT. Her comments will focus on "inflation dynamics and monetary policy," both of which investors will be keen to scrutinize for clues as to when the first rate hike in nearly a decade might occur.

"What I'm seeing is more skittishness about Fed action," Tim Dreiling, senior portfolio manager at U.S. Bank's Private Client Reserve, told TheStreet on the day's big losses. Dreiling added that investors need more "clarity" on what the Fed intends to do before markets calm down from big swings.

Must Read: 10 Big-Name Stocks That Are Already in Correction Territory

The Fed provoked unstable moves in equity trading after members of the central bank decided to leave rates near crises levels for another month at their meeting last week.

"The [Fed] didn't hike interest rates, but they did help elevate uncertainty and volatility," said Sam Stovall, U.S. equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, in a note. "We aren't looking for a bear market; just a deeper correction before being willing to consider altering our allocation and making adjustments to our sector recommendations."

Biotech companies such as Gilead Sciences (GILD - Get Report) , Valeant Pharmaceuticals (VRX - Get Report) , Celgene (CELG - Get Report) , and Biogen (BIIB - Get Report) led the health care sector lower. The Health Care SPDR ETF (XLV) dropped 1.1%, while the iShares NASDAQ Biotechnology Index ETF (IBB) slid 2%.

Caterpillar (CAT) shares were the worst performer on the Dow, falling 6.3% after the company said it expects to cut 4,000 to 5,000 jobs by the end of 2016. The total number of job cuts could amount to 10,000 by the end of 2018. The industrial machinery company also lowered full-year sales forecasts by $1 billion to $48 billion.

U.S. durable goods orders dropped 2% in August after a downwardly revised 1.9% increase in July. The drop was as expected, driven by weakened demand for aircraft. Excluding transportation, orders were unchanged but below estimates for a 0.3% increase.

Initial jobless claims edged up 3,000 to 267,000 over the week ended Sept. 19. Economists had expected the number of new claims for unemployment benefits to increase to 270,000.

The housing market continued to showcase its robust recovery after new home sales in August jumped 5.7% to an annual rate of 552,000. July home sales were revised up to 522,000 from 505,000. Economists had expected an annual rate of 517,000 in August.

Stocks had their first relatively calm session in weeks on Wednesday. Benchmark indexes moved within a narrow range with little commitment to any direction after crude oil slumped and U.S. and Chinese manufacturing came in weaker than expected.

Volkswagen (VLKAY) CEO Martin Winterkorn, who resigned on Wednesday, will reportedly be replaced by Porsche's CEO Matthias Muller in the wake of a massive emissions scandal, according to The Wall Street Journal. Earlier this week, the German automaker admitted that more than 11 million diesel vehicles had software that gamed emissions tests. Shares have now fallen 55% from a March peak.

In earnings news, KB Home (KBH) edged up 0.7% after a better-than-expected third quarter. The homebuilder earned 23 cents a share, a penny above estimates, while total sales surged 43% to $843.16 million. KB Home reported a 25% increase in homes delivered over the quarter.

Steelcase (SCS) shares were up nearly 2% after the business furniture company earned 35 cents a share in its second quarter, 3 cents above estimates. Quarterly revenue climbed 4.1% to $819 million and exceeded forecasts.

Adhesive company HB Fuller (FUL) slid 1.6% after missing quarterly forecasts on its top- and bottom-lines. Earnings of 61 cents a share fell short of expectations by 9 cents a share, while revenue of $524.13 million missed by $13 million.