NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are 10 things you should know for Monday, Oct. 5:

1. -- U.S. stock futures were rising Monday after Friday's weak jobs report was looked on positively by those who want the Federal Reserve to hold off on raising interest rates.



European stocks rose on Monday as a jump in commodities stocks offset disappointing economic data from the eurozone and the United Kingdom.



Asian shares ended Monday's session with gains.



2. -- The economic calendar in the U.S. on Monday includes the ISM Services Index for September at 10 a.m. EDT.



3. -- U.S. stocks on Friday managed to reverse an earlier selloff during the session but the dismal jobs report left many investors uneasy.



The S&P 500 added 1.4%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1.2%, and the Nasdaq gained 1.7%.



4. -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said some Wall Street executives should have gone to jail for their roles in the financial crisis of 2008 that triggered the Great Recession.



The Justice Department and other law-enforcement agencies focused on indicting or threatening to indict financial firms, he noted in an interview with USA Today, "but it would have been my preference to have more investigation of individual action, since obviously everything what went wrong or was illegal was done by some individual, not by an abstract firm."

Billions of dollars in fines have been levied against major banks and brokerage firms in the wake of the economic meltdown that was in large part triggered by reckless lending and shady securities dealings that blew up a housing bubble.



5. -- Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President and CEO Eric S. Rosengren still expects the central bank to raise interest rates this year despite what he called a "weak" September jobs report, which could signal a more significant economic slowdown that delays the policy tightening.

In a Reuters interview, Rosengren said the slowdown in hiring last month effectively heightens his sensitivity to the economy's performance the rest of the year. If it grows at less than a 2% pace, or if unemployment rises from 5.1% now, he would probably prefer to wait until next year to hike rates.



6. -- General Electric (GE - Get Report) has drawn a big investment from activist shareholder Nelson Peltz, The Wall Street Journal reported.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks





Peltz's Trian Fund Management said it has accumulated $2.5 billion in GE shares since the middle of May -- a roughly 1% stake -- making it one of the company's top 10 shareholders. It amounts to the biggest investment ever for the investment firm, which has a history of pushing well-known companies to dramatically reshape themselves, the Journal noted.

Peltz and GE CEO Jeffrey Immelt have a long relationship, and while Trian has some criticism of the company both sides said they are in agreement on most aspects of GE's current direction, including the sale of the majority of its giant financing arm. Trian hasn't requested a GE board seat, according to the Journal.



7. -- Clothing chain American Apparel (APP - Get Report) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday.



Struggling with falling sales, the company had said in August that it had "substantial doubt" it would remain in business.



American Apparel ousted its founder Dov Charney about two years ago. He is locked in a legal fight with the company and has sued American Apparel for defamation.



