NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stocks were sharply higher by late morning Monday as markets enjoyed a broad-based rally inspired by gains in Europe.

The S&P 500 was up 1.3%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 1%, and Nasdaq climbed 1.1%.

European markets surged, buoyed by U.S. market moves on Friday. Gains came despite a weak read on the services sector. Eurozone final September services PMI fell to a seven-month low of 53.7 and missed economists' estimates of 54. However, a metric on employment climbed for an 11th straight month. Germany's DAX and the FTSE 100 in London added more than 2%, while France's CAC 40 surged 3%.

Equities rose to end last week despite a weaker-than-expected jobs report that triggered fears the U.S. economy was on shaky ground.

Must Read: 5 Big Stocks to Trade for Big Gains

General Electric (GE - Get Report) led the Dow higher after activist investor Nelson Peltz and his hedge fund Trian Fund Management disclosed a $2.5 billion stake, the largest holding in the fund's history. Trian will hold 98.5 million GE shares. The fund has asked GE to increase cost-cutting efforts and possibly offload more of its finance assets. GE shares added 4%.

Services growth slowed in September to 56.9 from 59 in August, according to the Institute for Supply Management. The reading came in below economists' estimates of 57.5. The report showed that the domestic economy is experiencing challenges outside of lower energy prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar.

The United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations reached a deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the largest regional trade agreement in history. The deal would unite 40% of the world's economy and lower import tariffs and other trade barriers between countries. The deal, eight years in the making, still needs to pass Congress.

Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) named co-founder Jack Dorsey as its permanent CEO after months of speculation. Dorsey was the frontrunner after serving as interim chief executive since former CEO Dick Costolo stepped down in July. Dorsey will step down as chairman but will remain on the board. Shares were up nearly 2%.

American Apparel (APP - Get Report) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in Delaware. The teen clothing retailer had previously said in August that it had doubts it would be able to stay in business. Stores will remain open while the company seeks approval for its restructuring plans from the courts.

Tesla (TSLA - Get Report) said it delivered 11,580 units of its Model S sedan in the third quarter. Sales were flat from the second quarter, but jumped 49% from the third quarter last year.

Google (GOOGL - Get Report) officially changed its name to Alphabet on stock markets Monday. Alphabet is the parent company of Google as well as its other tech businesses. The change in corporate structure will not change the ticker symbols on the Nasdaq.

Potash Corp. (POT) was up more than 2% after it withdrew an $8.8 billion takeover offer for German-based salt producer K+S AG, which had previously rejected Potash's offer of 41 euros a share in May. Potash said that a decline in commodity markets had made the pursuit unviable.