Apple Inc. sold bonds in euros for the second time, increasing the amount the iPhone maker has raised in global debt offerings since 2013 to more than $55 billion.

The 2 billion-euro ($2.3 billion) sale was split evenly between bonds maturing in eight years and 12 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apple sold the longer-dated notes at 85 basis points more than benchmark rates. That compares with the 45 basis-point premium for securities maturing in 2026 that the company sold in its debut euro offering in November, the data show.

Apple has sold bonds around the world to diversify funding as it works to return $200 billion to investors by March 2017 and expands its global retail network. While the cost of funding has increased since Apple’s debut euro sale, U.S. companies can still raise capital in the single currency at a 2.07 percentage-point average discount to borrowing in dollars, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.

“It’s slightly more expensive than last year’s euro-bond sale, but you’re still paying less than 2 percent for 12 years,” said Geraud Charpin, a portfolio manager at BlueBay Asset Management in London. “It’s pretty cheap money. What else do you want to ask for?”

Cupertino, California-based Apple initially marketed the 12-year bonds bonds at a premium of 95 basis points, according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to speak publicly. The 1 billion euros of securities maturing in 2024 will pay 60 basis points after being initially offered at 70 basis points, the person said. The company paid a 30 basis-point premium for eight-year debt last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Share Buybacks

Apple will use the proceeds from the bond sale for general corporate purposes, as well as to buy back shares, pay dividends, boost working capital and to fund capital expenditure, acquisitions and repayment of debt, according to the person.

Company officials in Europe were unavailable for immediate comment on the sale when contacted by phone.

Apple on Wednesday unveiled a wide-ranging lineup of new products, including updated iPhones, a revamped TV set-top box for playing games and watching videos, and a bigger iPad designed for business customers.

Royal Dutch Shell Plc also sold 3.45 billion euros of bonds on Thursday, according to Bloomberg data. These mature in four, six-and-a-half and 10 years.

First Sale

Euro-denominated corporate debt similarly rated to Apple, with an average maturity of eight years, is quoted at about 49 basis points more than benchmark rates, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. For 13-year debt, quotes are about 73 basis points more. When Apple held its first euro bond sale on Nov. 4 premiums were 34 basis points for eight years and 53 basis points for 13 years.

Investment-grade corporate debt in euros yields an average 1.37 percent, compared with the record low 0.85 percent in March, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.