NEW YORK (The Deal) -- Beleaguered House Speaker John Boehner's announcement Friday that he will resign from his post in October will likely make it more difficult for Congress to reach a deal to pass a bank regulatory relief bill currently under consideration, analyst said.

The legislation would roll back aspects of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law enacted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The package has a variety of components, but a key measure seeks to raise the asset threshold at which a bank would be automatically designated a systemically important financial institution from $50 billion to $500 billion. (The legislation does maintain regulators' discretion to designate some smaller regional and mid-sized banks based on their risk profile.)

As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, banks designated as SIFIs are subject to tough stress tests, as well as capital and liquidity requirements. They are also required to draft living wills explaining how they would unwind themselves in bankruptcy. Compliance with the provision is expensive and time consuming and is considered the driving force behind General Electric's (GE - Get Report) recent move to divest itself of most of the financial assets within its GE Capital unit, thus escaping designation as a SIFI.

Senate Banking Committee Chairman Richard Shelby, R-Ala., attached the relief package to a must-pass financial services spending bill that was approved in July, and it cleared his committee on a 16-14 party line vote, but in its current form it is unlikely to remain the spending bill.

Must Read: Dodd-Frank Making U.S. Banks Uncompetitive, Says White & Case Partner

Some Democrats are supportive of raising the threshold to $100 billion or $150 billion but not to $500 billion as Shelby and many Republicans would like.

Donald Lamson, of counsel at Shearman & Sterling in Washington, said Boehner's resignation pulls the House further to the right and may make it more complicated for a future House speaker to compromise with Democrats to get things done. He said Boehner's resignation makes it more difficult to get Shelby's bank bill through the House. "It pushes it back to the end of the line," he said.