The stock market can produce huge profits over time, and therefore many see stocks as an investment from which young people can reap the biggest rewards. Yet those in their 50s often have the most disposable income to invest, with children moving out of their household and with expenses like college tuition falling by the wayside. As a result, many 50-somethings have a unique opportunity to put their money to work in stocks, and it's important to make the most of the growth opportunities available to them while also starting to think about investments that will generate the income they need once they retire. With that in mind, below you'll find three stocks that you'll want to take a look if you're in your 50s and starting to approach retirement.

Microsoft continues to evolve

For many years, investors believed that Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) growth days were over. Despite a lucrative dividend yield approaching 3%, Microsoft seemed to be stuck in an endless cycle of being an also-ran in key areas like cloud computing and the mobile industry.

Yet the appointment of CEO Satya Nadella in early 2014 led to a revolution within Microsoft, as the company started to change its corporate culture and evolve into a more promising company. After years of resistance, Microsoft finally made some of its most successful software offerings, such as Office 365, available to users on competing operating systems like iOS and Android. That tapped into huge demand from users who weren't willing to stick with the Windows ecosystem but who still wanted the power and functionality that popular products like Word and Excel offer. At the same time, the new Windows 10 release is going fairly well, and even lagging areas like the Surface tablet line are starting to show signs of life.

It's too early to declare victory, but Microsoft has recovered nicely from its worst levels. For long-term investors, the tech giant offers a good combination of potential growth and current income.

Carnival keeps cruising

As retirement approaches, many people start thinking about vacations, and cruise-ship operator Carnival (NYSE:CCL) has cashed in on the demographic advantages of appealing to a growing group of retiring Baby Boomers. As the largest cruise operator in the world, Carnival has about 100 ships in its fleet, and it's still looking at growth to take advantage of more efficient new ship designs that can accommodate more passengers and cut operating costs.

Well-established markets in the U.S. remain healthy, but Carnival is also jumping at new growth opportunities in China, which it sees as the fastest-growing market in the world. With initiatives designed to target Chinese travelers, Carnival hopes that it can keep getting bigger around the world while still generating the results it needs to keep paying its current dividend, which yields more than 2%.

NextEra offers the utility of growth and income

Utility stocks offer a good mix of conservative growth and current income, and NextEra Energy (NYSE:NEE) is a good example of how investors can earn a 3% yield while not giving up entirely on the possibility of business expansion down the road.

NextEra has done a better job than many of its peers in jumping on the opportunity in renewable energy, with extensive holdings in wind and solar power. When you add in extensive nuclear power-generation capabilities, NextEra doesn't have nearly the carbon footprint that most electrical generating utilities have, and that means that it won't necessarily face the same challenges in dealing with current and future regulation on carbon emissions that some other utilities will. The utility industry isn't going to give you much chance of blockbuster returns, but steady and reliable results can help even those in their 50s grow their current investments considerably over time.

Some financial advisors tell clients in their 50s to start ramping down their exposure to the stock market. Yet if you have ambitious plans for a prosperous retirement, then stocks like these three can help you reach your goals and achieve the financial security you crave.