Getty Images

The $199 two-year iPhone contract is fast becoming obsolete.

During the company’s annual event, Apple AAPL, +1.53% announced a new iPhone 6S upgrade where customers can lease a 16-gigabyte iPhone 6S for $32 per month (almost $778 over two years) – including the AppleCare+ warranty (which usually costs $99 a year). That’s instead of paying $650 on a two-year carrier contract with AT&T or Verizon and locked into an older phone for half that time. “Apple’s plan is only slightly more expensive than the cost of buying an unlocked iPhone, but it gives customers the option to upgrade every 12 months,” says Brian Colello, analyst at research firm Morningstar.

Apple’s iPhone leasing plan is also designed to compete with new installment plans offered by secondary carriers. Starting Saturday, T-Mobile TMUS, +0.55% will charge $20 a month for a 16GB iPhone over 18 months with qualifying credit; customers have an option to pay another $164 at the end of that period if they want to keep their phone, which would bring the total cost to $524. (T-Mobile hasn’t said how long this offer will last.) Sprint offers an “iPhone forever” program where you pay $22 a month to lease a 16GB iPhone 6 (the 2014 version) or $15 a month when trading in an old phone. (Sprint hasn’t released prices for the iPhone 6S.)

The big difference between Apple’s plan and carrier plans may come down to whether people will be happy to lease (with Apple) rather than own (with AT&T and Verizon). “The monthly fees are only modestly more than the installment plans, which is a sign that Apple fans may take the bait,” says Lindsay Sakraida, director of content marketing at DealNews.com. “Leasing is still a very new concept for consumers, so it remains to be seen whether shoppers will be OK with the idea of paying a premium for the right to upgrade every year, without ever technically owning these phones.”

Apple’s upgrade plan is designed to take a bite out of the lucrative resale market. Apple hasn’t yet sold refurbished iPhones, Sakraida says, but runs a healthy marketplace for refurbished computers and iPads that are priced roughly 20% cheaper than new units. “Considering iPhones have a very high resale value too, Apple could potentially start selling refurbished iPhones at a great profit,” she adds. Chris Sullivan, chief executive of resale site Gazelle, says Apple’s upgrade program is “compelling” but for many people, he adds, “a new iPhone every year is a luxury they can’t afford.”

Still, the days of buying an iPhone on a two-year contract may be over, says Jan Dawson, founder and chief analyst at Jackdaw, a technology research firm. Apple’s leasing plan is a game-changer, he wrote in a blog post. “It’s quite possible the carriers have opened the door to a trend that may well come back to bite them,” he says. “They’ve both weaned customers off subsidies and trained them to buy their devices outright in monthly installments and, in the process, they’ve played right into Apple’s hands. They might well rue the day they embraced the move away from subsidies.”

Also see: Some Apple fans stick with original 2007 iPhone

More from MarketWatch