NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of General Electric (GE - Get Report) were falling 1.4% to $24.78 Thursday after the conglomerate announced a new agreement with UK Export Finance.

The agreement with the UK export credit agency will give GE access to export financing for up to $12 billion. The agreement will initially support confirmed and potential orders from Brazil, Ghana, India, Mozambique, and other international markets.

GE said it will create up to 1,000 new energy sector jobs in the UK as it wins new international orders.

The UKEF agreed to add GE as a member of its Direct Lending Facility Partnership Panel under the agreement, which will allow GE to "provide technical, commercial and financial solutions" to its customers. The UKEF also offered GE a new "top-up" support facility of up to $750 million.

'In today's competitive environment, countries that have a functional Export Credit Agency (ECA) will attract investment," GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said in a statement. "Export finance is a critical tool we use to support our customers. Without it, we can't compete against foreign competitors who enjoy ECA financing from their governments."

Immelt continued, "We are fortunate to have the support of UK Export Finance (UKEF), one of the most flexible ECAs in the world. The UK is pro-export and pro-manufacturing."

TheStreet Ratings team rates GENERAL ELECTRIC CO as a Hold with a ratings score of C+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) a HOLD. The primary factors that have impacted our rating are mixed -- some indicating strength, some showing weaknesses, with little evidence to justify the expectation of either a positive or negative performance for this stock relative to most other stocks. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, good cash flow from operations and expanding profit margins. However, as a counter to these strengths, we also find weaknesses including feeble growth in the company's earnings per share, deteriorating net income and generally higher debt management risk."

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: