NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- General Electric (GE - Get Report) CEO Jeffrey Immelt and activist investor Nelson Peltz, who has acquired a $2.5 billion stake in the iconic manufacturer, appear to agree on what's needed to boost its languishing stock price.

But counting Peltz's Trian Fund Management among GE's investors nonetheless heightens the pressure on Immelt to deliver on those steps.

GE's stock price never fully rebounded from the financial crisis, when concerns about the company's finance unit prompted investors to abandon it. Despite Immelt's efforts since to refocus on manufacturing, including the current selloff of most of the GE Capital lending business, the current stock price of about $26.57 a share is 30% lower than its 2008 high of $38.43.

Must Read: Why Bernanke's Tired of the Fed Being "the Only Game in Town"

"We invested in GE because it is undervalued and under-appreciated by the market despite what we believe is a transformation that will allow its world-class industrial businesses to drive attractive shareowner returns," Peltz, whose holding amounts to a little less than 1% of GE, said in a statement.

Peltz described a "longstanding relationship" with Immelt and said the two have talked periodically about the company's corporate structure and shareholder returns. While Peltz described GE as "one of the world's greatest businesses" and praised Immelt's strategy with GE Capital, he nonetheless recommended steps to boost shareholder value that include borrowing more money and increasing dividends and buybacks.

GE could be worth between $40 and $45 a share, including dividends, by the end of 2017, Peltz said, a statement that suggests he might consider more aggressive moves if he doesn't think Immelt is acting quickly enough.

Still, Peltz didn't even hint at starting a proxy fight with the Fairfield, Conn.-based company, which traces its roots to Thomas Edison's invention of the light bulb in the late 1800s.

Earlier this year, Trian suffered a high-profile defeat in a fight with chemical maker DuPont (DD - Get Report) , failing to win seats for even one of its candidates, partly because of the Delaware-based company's pro-management retail investor base. That base accounts for about 33% of the stock.