Chinese President Xi Jinping is to make his first state visit to the US next week. Before showing up at the White House, his first stop is Seattle, where he will spend a jam-packed 36 hours talking tech, including a round table meeting with some of China’s most powerful CEOs and their US counterparts. Tensions have mounted between executives from the two countries over everything from cyber-spying to censorship to intellectual property, so there will be plenty for them to discuss.

The two-hour dialogue, hosted by the Paulson Institute, founded by former treasury secretary Henry F. Paulson, will be held Sept. 23. A third of the attendees from China are from the tech and internet sectors.

CEO Company Industry Jack Ma Alibaba Internet Lu Guanqiu Wanxiang Automotive Ma Huateng Tencent Internet Yang Yuanqin Lenovo Computer hardware Wang Yusuo ENN Energy Holdings Natural gas Ma Zehua COSCO Shipping Guan Qin CSCEC Construction Wan Long Shuanghui Group Meat processing Tian Guoli Bank of China Banking Jiang Jianqing Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Banking Pan Gang Yili Group Dairy Robin Li Baidu Internet Liang Haishan Haier Group Electronics home appliances Wang Jinshu Yuhuang Chemical Chemicals Li Qiang Tianjin Pipe Group Steel pipe making

And six of the US attendees are from the tech and internet sectors:

CEO Company Industry Mary Barra General Motors Automotive Jeff Bezos Amazon Internet Warren Buffett Berkshire Hathaway Conglomerate John Chambers Cisco Systems Inc. Networking equipment Tim Cook Apple Inc. Consumer electronics Dave Cote Honeywell Conglomerate Bob Iger The Walt Disney Company Mass media & Entertainment Ellen Kullman DuPont Chemicals Andrew Liveris The Dow Chemical Company Chemicals Satya Nadella Microsoft Computer software Indra Nooyi PepsiCo Beverages Dennis Muilenberg The Boeing Company Aerospace Tom Pritzker Hyatt Hotels Corporation Hospitality Ginni Rometty IBM Corporation Computer hardware Howard Schultz Starbucks Coffee

Conspicuously missing from both lists are executives from the biggest companies in both countries: Sinopec, China National Petroleum, Walmart, and Exxon. During Xi’s visit to Europe last March, he was accompanied by over 200 Chinese business leaders, many from the energy sector.

Xi will deliver a policy speech at the meeting while Paulson will moderate a discussion with the business leaders, the institution says.

Tech companies at the meeting will “inevitably” talk about cyber security issues, as the Chinese Communist Party’s leading mouthpiece People’s Daily writes on its Wechat account (link in Chinese), but they, and companies in other sectors, will also get “broad space for cooperation.”