NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Jim Cramer discussed what's ahead for the stock market, why you should own General Electric (GE - Get Report) and why he's a fan of Columbia Sportswear (COLM - Get Report) while answering viewers' questions from social media on Tuesday.

On the market overall, Cramer said Friday's jobs number was important, because it took away the market's single biggest risk -- that the Federal Reserve would raise rates this month. Cramer also said Glencore's (GLNCY) stabilization is a positive factor.

One viewer seeking longer-term advice had this question for Cramer: Among General Electric (GE - Get Report) , Alcoa (AA - Get Report) , DuPont (DD - Get Report) , Johnson and Johnson (JNJ) or ExxonMobil (XOM) , which stock would be the best to own for the next two years? According to Cramer, Nelson Peltz's involvement with GE will be "radically good" for the company, and that GE is a great value. He also recommended PepsiCo (PEP) , and suggested owning that stock as well.

Another viewer asked whether Amazon's (AMZN) decision to ban the sale of Apple (AAPL) TV from its site would hurt the product. Cramer responded that it would not, and asserted that both Amazon and Apple are stocks to own.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

To the viewer who asked why Gilead's (GILD) stock price is stuck in place while Celgene's (CELG) is moving higher, Cramer responded that the negative press about predatory drug pricing is impacting the sector, and that biotechs are vulnerable to another hiccup every time Hillary Clinton speaks about the issue. Still Cramer thinks the negative pricing talk will die down, and he notes that Action Alerts PLUS Portfolio, which Cramer manages, is buying Biogen (BIIB) stock.

Finally, Cramer was asked about Columbia Sportswear (COLM - Get Report) , which is a stock he says he loves it and adds that it's a terrific long term hold. He also noted there's talk about VF Corp (VFC) buying Lululemon (LULU) , but pointed out that Columbia wants to remain independent.

Send your questions on Twitter(TWTR) to @JimCramer, using #CramerQ.