The biggest change in the new iPhone that Apple Inc. showed off Wednesday is 3-D Touch, which offers new capabilities that appear to solve a key pain point for mobile computing.

Apple AAPL, +1.53% detailed an updated version of its poorly named Force Touch technology, previously used on the Apple Watch and one MacBook model, which allows devices to read the amount of pressure used on a touch-compatible device. As displayed at Wednesday’s event — which debuted two new iPhones, a new Apple TV, a larger iPad Pro and new features for the Apple Watch — the feature appears to offer a similar change to mobile computing that the mouse brought to personal computers.

Early personal computers were mostly used for data entry, and most functions were performed with a keyboard, limiting the amount of easy tasks and putting a higher bar for learning how to use the machine. The mouse, which became popular after being paired with Apple’s Macintosh computers in the mid-1980s, brought the ability to easily right-click or hold down a button to bring up menus, making PCs more useful and easy to learn for many around the world.

See also: Four changes Apple announced that you should know about

Mobile computing has been stuck in browsing mode for most of its existence — It’s easy to navigate around the Web and play around with apps, but difficult to perform more in-depth tasks. Even simple copying and pasting have been hard for many users, many of whom run to a PC when they need to accomplish more than the simplest tasks.

3-D Touch allows users to press or hold to bring up a similar menu. In Apple’s event, they showed the ability to hold down on the Facebook app icon to perform within that app tasks — such as checking in to a location — without actually opening it and navigating around.

“It’s just so much more direct and natural than ever before,” Apple software executive Craig Federighi said while showing off the technology on stage in San Francisco on Wednesday.

Similar tasks and menus, notably copying and pasting, will make mobile computing more capable and could be a killer feature on a new iPhone that is otherwise little changed from the previous version. FBR Capital Markets analyst Daniel Ives, for one, called it a “dynamic new feature unseen on competing smartphones” after Wednesday’s event.

“Advanced Force Touch — being called 3D Touch — remains the key new feature; a pressure-sensitive input beneath the users touch screen adding a new dimension for shortcuts and gestures,” Ives wrote in a note after the event.

Forrester Research analyst Frank Gillett agreed, writing, “The 3D Touch and Taptic feedback will reset the expectations of smartphone owners for how touch devices work.”

Apple investors didn’t seem as wowed by the new feature: Shares fell 1.9% to $110.15 by the end of Wednesday’s session after clocking gains early in the event.

More from MarketWatch