NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- General Electric (GE - Get Report) , the industrial conglomerate that traces its roots to Thomas Edison's invention of the light bulb, is forming a new business that it promises will transform the energy sector.

Called Current, the company integrates GE's LED, Solar, Energy Storage and Electric Vehicle businesses with its proprietary cloud-based software system called Predix to deliver cost-effective and efficient energy solutions to its customers, according to a statement. Current will be headed by Maryrose Sylvester, who is currently chief of GE Lighting.

The Fairfield, Conn.-based company said it will use its Predix software to analyze energy consumption, and will then provide customers with recommendations to increase energy efficiency.

"The creation of a new company within GE reinforces our commitment to take energy to the next level," said CEO Jeff Immelt, who has refocused the company founded by Thomas Edison on its manufacturing roots since the financial crisis. Immelt previously sold the NBC entertainment business to Comcast and is now shedding most of the lucrative GE Capital lending business.

Must Read: Pressure on GE's Immelt Surges as Peltz Buys $2.5 Billion Stake

GE estimates customers will be able to save 10% to 20% on their energy bills by using products and services from Current. The business is launching with several large customers already on board, including JPMorgan Chase, Hilton Worldwide, Simon Property Group, Hospital Corp. of America, and Trane, a brand of Ingersoll Rand.

As startups go, Current might already be considered a success. It begins with more than $1 billion in revenue, and GE believes the company can grow into a $5 billion business in five years.

Current will be headquartered in the Boston area and will also have a presence in Silicon Valley. GE, which had a workforce of about 300,000 at the end of last year, said it expects 200 new jobs will be created at Current.

"Energy is part of our legacy, part of our genetic code, and digital code is a big part of our future," said Beth Comstock, the vice chairman whose business innovation unit includes Current. "Commercial enterprises can't afford complexity and inefficiency in energy solutions if they are to remain competitive. They are looking for 'future-proofed' solutions. From the socket to the grid, we understand how the electrons flow."