October/Christmas is finally here. Seriously, though, who isn’t cheered up by politically incorrect Halloween costumes and children pounding on your door for candy?

Maybe investors, who are hyper-aware that we’re at the start of the year’s most volatile and volume-packed month for stocks. And that’s something that could be a “dangerous mix for a ‘risk’-prone market,” like this one, John Kicklighter, chief currency strategist at DailyFX, told clients.

That isn’t to say October can’t be peachy for some stocks (see our chart of the day). And there is a bit of seasonality is in our favor. Volatility aside, after burying that lousy quarter, markets are still diving into what is normally one of the strongest chunks of the year, notes BTIG’s chief strategist Dan Greenhaus.

“Dating back to 1960, any non-2008 quarter down more than 2015’s Q3 saw the index appreciate 80% of the time in the following quarter,” he says in a note to investors, adding that the median gain was 5.5%.

Greenhaus looked at stats since 1959, making note of when August and September have been losing months for stocks. In all but one year — 1977 — the fourth quarter has ended higher each time, with a median gain of 7.9%.

But there’s another problem right now with Wall Street. Dow futures are up about 100 points, and that’s a good thing, right? Maybe, but much of that is due to data from a faraway place — China. Our call of the day says Wall Street might start feeling more confident about those up days and get revved up for a fab finish to the year, if it would end its fixation on the rest of the world.

And just who is driving the last three days of gains? We really need to know “whether the buying is done by speculative traders or institutional investors who will hold onto them long-term,” Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial told MarketWatch.

Come out, come out, whoever you are.

Key market gauges

Futures on the Dow YMZ5, +0.21% the S&P ESZ5, +0.13% and the Nasdaq NQZ5, +0.40% began the start of the fourth quarter by ratcheting higher, but are now paring those gains. The early boost came in part from some less-ugly-than-expected manufacturing data from China, where stocks happened to be on holiday. The Nikkei 225 NIK, +2.11% went on a tear, ending 2% higher. Europe SXXP, +2.03% is also paring early gains. Elsewhere, crude oil US:CLX5 is higher, gold GCX5, +0.43% is off a little, and the dollar DXY, -0.17% is climbing as risk aversion gets kicked to the curb. For now.

The economy

Weekly jobless claims came in at the lowest level since Richard Nixon was president. The September manufacturing PMI is coming at 9:45 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by the Institute for Supply Management survey and construction spending for August.

The call

This business of linking Wall Street stocks to overseas economies needs to stop, says Jani Ziedins of the CrackedMarket blog. Yesterday’s rally, for example, was merely a byproduct of U.S. traders taking their cues from overseas markets — something he says wasn’t really happening a couple of months ago.

FactSet/Kollmeyer S&P 500 tracks the world

“While there are plenty of reasons to believe in the U.S. economy, linking our stocks to overseas economies is not healthy. Few believe China and Germany are done falling into their respective holes, and if we continue pricing U.S. equities based on how foreign markets trade, today’s rebound will be undone in a matter of days,” Ziedins says.

U.S. stocks have got to start decoupling from the rest of the world and begin “trading on traditional metrics like earnings, revenues, employment and GDP,” argues Ziedins. For the separation to take hold, third-quarter earnings need to prove that fears that the U.S. will get dragged down by the rest of the world are unfounded.

Once that happens, the year-end rally for U.S. stocks will kick off as international traders wake up to “the most attractive economy on an ugly block,” says Ziedins.

The buzz

Wal-Mart WMT, +0.44% is getting ready to cut hundreds of jobs at its Bentonville, Ark. headquarters, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources. That comes on the heels of 1,500 job cuts from Whole Foods WFM, -1.36%