All aboard the worry train.

Carl Icahn was at the driving controls at midnight, screaming for more coal in the firebox as he lectured on the dangers of zero interest rates and high-yield bonds. That’s familiar ground for him, though you had to get past an endorsement for Donald Trump to get to that warning in Icahn’s “Danger Ahead” video last night.

But his comments come at a particular moment of angst for this market, after U.S. stocks closed at their lowest levels since late August yesterday. Few may be willing to put faith in any kind of run higher. Crossing Wall Street’s Eddy Elfenbein says brace yourself, because this latest round of selling isn’t going to be over until the fat lady sings — that is, until the VIX VIX, -13.47% closes below 20.

The VIX rose 16% yesterday, closing at 27.63, meaning there’s potentially more way to run yet for this latest rout. “It appears that the market wants to ‘retest’ the low from August 24, when the S&P 500 got as low as 1,867.01,” Elfenbein says.

Fuel for that test may trickle in from overseas. India’s central bank looks like it got panicked into a bigger rate cut than anyone expected overnight. That’s one sure sign of trouble for that emerging market, say analysts.

“This is the fastest-growing emerging economy, currently, growing faster than China. And yet its bank’s governor felt a rate cut was needed,” writes CooperCity analyst Louise Cooper. “It is therefore no wonder that equity investors are getting spooked.”

Count Goldman Sachs among those rattled. The investment bank cut its S&P 500 forecast for 2015 to 2,000 from 2,100, and also cut its earnings forecast. “Flat is the new up,” is what investors will be singing next year, said Goldman’s David Kostin in a note to investors.

If the bull-market faithful are looking for something else to hang onto, check out our call of the day. That is, if you can figure out whether we’re in the late stages of the bull game or just in the early days of a bear market.

Key market gauges

A move is underway in premarket to kick this market back into gear, though it’s tough to hang your hat on. Futures on the Dow YMZ5, +0.21% and the S&P ESZ5, +0.15% are pointing to a bounce. That’s after Asia had a horrible night, with the Nikkei NIK, +2.11% tanking 4% and giving up gains for this year. The Shanghai Composite SHCOMP, +1.58% fell 2%. Not much joy in Europe SXXP, +2.03% either. Crude oil US:CLX5 is up a little, and gold GCX5, +0.43% is off some.

The economy

The Case-Shiller home price index for July rose 0.6%. Consumer confidence index for September at 10 a.m. Read: Economic Preview.

Last night, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said he wouldn’t support rate increases until “the middle of next year.” Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said Monday he still expects to raise interest rates this year.

The call

Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research says he’s starting to worry that a relief rally is going to be more challenging to muster this time than in the past, “when central banks had more ammo and more credibility.”

“If the market’s main concern is the slowdown in global growth, there’s not much reason to expect any upside surprise soon,” Yardeni says, adding that even if the U.S. economy can hold its head up, it can’t lift the whole globe.

What will help the bulls get back on their feet? “Good companies that can continue to find good growth in a world of secular stagnation,” he says. What’s to be positive about? Commodity users who benefit from weak commodity producers, and valuation multiples that are more attractive now than earlier in the year.

But it’s down to this, really : “Needless to say, earnings have to keep growing and U.S. consumers have to keep consuming for the secular bull to survive this latest challenge,” he says.

BTIG’s Dan Greenhaus was practically preaching from the same hymnal. He says if “equities are going to stage a rally from these lower levels, companies are going to have to reiterate U.S. health.” That means not just earnings, but what corporates say will be key for the market.