NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stock futures were sharply lower on Thursday after durable goods orders slid in August and ahead of a speech from Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen after markets close.



S&P 500 futures were down 0.74%, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures fell 0.81%, and Nasdaq futures slid 0.84%.

U.S. durable goods orders dropped 2% in August after a downwardly revised 1.9% increase in July. The drop was as expected, driven by weakened demand for aircraft. Excluding transportation, orders were unchanged but below estimates for a 0.3% increase.

Initial jobless claims edged up 3,000 to 267,000 over the week ended Sept. 19. Economists had expected the number of new claims for unemployment benefits to increase to 270,000.

Also on the economic calendar, new home sales data is due for 10 a.m. EDT. Yellen will cap off the day with a speech at the University of Massachusetts at 5 p.m. Her comments will focus on "inflation dynamics and monetary policy," both of which investors will be keen to scrutinize for clues as to when the first rate hike in nearly a decade might occur.

Must Read: 10 Big-Name Stocks That Are Already in Correction Territory

Stocks had their first relatively calm session in weeks on Wednesday. Benchmark indexes moved within a narrow range with little commitment to any direction after crude oil slumped and U.S. and Chinese manufacturing came in weaker than expected.

Caterpillar (CAT - Get Report) shares fell 6% after the company said it expects to cut 4,000 to 5,000 jobs by the end of 2016. The total number of job cuts could amount to 10,000 by the end of 2018. The industrial machinery company also lowered full-year sales forecasts by $1 billion to $48 billion.

Volkswagen (VLKAY) CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned on Wednesday in the wake of a massive emissions scandal and further resignations among the executive staff are expected to come. A chief executive successor will be named on Friday. Earlier this week, the German automaker admitted that more than 11 million diesel vehicles had software that gamed emissions tests. Shares have now fallen 55% from a March peak.

Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) has signed a deal with Baidu (BIDU - Get Report) to make the Chinese search engine a default home page for Chinese users of Microsoft's Edge browser. The deal came as China President Xi Jinping met with technology executives in the U.S. on Wednesday.

Wal-Mart (WMT - Get Report) is reportedly seeking price cuts from suppliers in China of at least 2% to 6%, arguing that the retailer should share in the savings following China's devaluation of the yuan. The price cuts will likely be for general merchandise such as apparel, appliances, electronics and toys.

Steelcase (SCS) shares were up nearly 5% after the business furniture company earned 35 cents a share in its second quarter, 3 cents above estimates. Quarterly revenue climbed 4.1% to $819 million and exceeded forecasts.

Worthington Industries (WOR) shares were down 4% in premarket trading after the steel mill missed revenue estimates. The company reported total sales down 12.1% to $758.15 million, driven by a drop in commodity prices.

Adhesive company HB Fuller (FUL) slid 7% after missing quarterly forecasts on its top- and bottom-lines. Earnings of 61 cents a share fell short of expectations by 9 cents a share, while revenue of $524.13 million missed by $13 million.