NEW YORK (The Deal) -- On first blush, Trian Fund Management's Nelson Peltz and General Electric's (GE - Get Report) Jeffrey Immelt appear to agree about what it would take to improve the industrial conglomerate's languishing stock price.



However, the activist fund's campaign puts GE on the clock to produce a turnaround.

Peltz disclosed Monday that he has accumulated a $2.5 billion GE stake, representing slightly less than 1% of the company. Trian also put out an 80-page white paper detailing a number of improvements the fund would like to see take place at the Fairfield, Conn.-based company, including a larger share buyback than currently planned.

Trian notes that its officials have had "constructive" dialogue with GE and that Peltz has a "longstanding relationship" with Immelt and the two have had periodic dialogue about the industrial conglomerate's corporate structure and shareholder returns. GE responded with a statement saying it "welcomes" Trian's significant investment in the company, adding that "Trian has a strong track record of working with companies to improve long-term shareholder value."



Peltz added that GE is "one of the world's greatest businesses."

A large amount of space in Trian's white paper is devoted to praising Immelt for taking steps to divest most of GE Capital, a move that the mega-industrial giant announced in April as part of an effort to reduce its regulatory headaches in Washington. (Trian calls it a "legacy problem" that's being addressed.)

Must Read: Energy Sector Leads Stocks in Broad Rally

That doesn't mean that everything between the two sides was chummy. Peltz argued that GE could be worth between $40 and $45 a share, including dividends, by the end of 2017. That suggests Peltz, while giving Immelt time, could consider stepping up his insurgency to the next level, should he not see improvements.

In Monday-morning trading, GE was up 3.93% to $26.57 per share.

The deadline to submit names for GE's board of directors election at its 2016 annual meeting, likely in April, is Nov. 11. It is possible that Peltz -- an occasional employer of proxy fights to drive change -- could nominate dissident directors by then. As the investor's statement was carefully couched to highlight the collaborative nature of their relationship -- and certain key deadlines set for 2017 and 2018 -- all indications are that Peltz is likely to give Immelt more time to improve GE's stock price before launching a proxy contest to elect dissident directors.

"Trian is talking up their book and to the extent GE adopts their idea, they will say they came up with it. Right now they are seeing if the market views their suggestions as a positive and they may want to get someone on the board later," said one proxy solicitor familiar with the situation.



It is likely that Peltz, or Trian co-founder and CIO Ed Garden, would like to obtain a seat on GE's board as they did, for example, at Bank of New York Mellon (BK - Get Report) without a struggle. (Trian did not return requests for comment on this point.)

Though no stranger to proxy fights, at no point in his note did Peltz even hint that he might consider launching a contest. The activist is just coming off a high-profile defeat at E. I. du Pont de Nemours (DD - Get Report) , where he failed to get himself, or any Trian-backed candidate elected to the chemical giant's board. In that battle, a key reason for Peltz's defeat was the result of a large pro-management retail investor base, representing roughly 33% of the company.

