NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are 10 things you should know for Thursday, Oct. 1:

1. -- U.S. stock futures were higher Thursday, the first day of the fourth quarter, and global equities rose after a Chinese manufacturing index improved.



European stocks were trading in positive territory, amid signs of continued growth in the eurozone.



Asian shares gained after an official Chinese manufacturing index based on a survey of factory purchasing managers rose to 49.8 in September from 49.7 in August. Japan's Nikkei 225 rose 1.9%. Markets in Hong Kong and mainland China were closed for holidays.



2. -- The economic calendar in the U.S. on Thursday includes weekly initial jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. EDT, the ISM Index for September at 10 a.m., and construction spending for August at 10 a.m.

3. -- U.S. stocks on Wednesday rose, ending the third quarter on a positive note. But the three-month period remained the worst for U.S. equities in four years.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 1.5%, the S&P 500 jumped 1.9%, and the Nasdaq climbed 2.3%.







4. -- An investigation into a leak of sensitive information from the Federal Reserve in 2012 has escalated to an insider-trading probe, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

But the firm at the center of the probe, Medley Global Advisors, has thrown up a roadblock by claiming that it's a media organization entitled to special protections under the law, the people told the newspaper.

Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are focusing on the information leak while the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is looking into whether anyone violated insider-trading rules in 2012 when Medley disclosed to its clients details about the Fed's plans for further economic stimulus, the Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.

A spokesman for Medley said the firm "reserves complete editorial freedom in its newsletters, an integral principle for any serious newsgathering organization." He said, "Medley's journalists are focused on providing their readers deep insight," and that the firm's work is "made available to all subscribers and has a global audience from Kansas City to Madrid to Tokyo."



5. -- Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) co-founder Jack Dorsey, who's been serving as interim CEO the past three months, is expected be named the company's new permanent CEO as early as Thursday, although that time frame may change, Re/code reported, citing sources. Dorsey will apparently continue to run Square, the payments company he founded where he's also CEO, according to Re/code.

The move won't be unexpected, with Dorsey thought of as No. 1 for most of the search that began this summer when Dick Costolo stepped down as CEO.

Sources added there is likely to be some shakeup of the board too, most immediately the departure of Costolo as a director, Re/code reported.



6. -- Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) and Google (GOOGL - Get Report) agreed to dismiss all of their pending patent lawsuits against one another.



The agreement means that about 20 different lawsuits in Germany and the U.S. involving issues such as mobile phones, wireless networking, video decoding and other technologies will go away, according to the New York Times.



The terms of the agreement weren't announced.



Microsoft and Google said they also had agreed to "collaborate on certain patent matters and anticipate working together in other areas in the future to benefit our customers."



7. -- Wal-Mart (WMT - Get Report) is preparing a round of layoffs as early as Friday that would affect hundreds of employees at its Bentonville, Ark., headquarters, the Journal reported, citing people familiar with the situation.



Fewer than 500 workers are expected to lose their jobs. About 18,600 people work for Wal-Mart in the Bentonville region. Wal-Mart declined to comment for the Journal.

According to a person familiar with the matter, human resources employees have reserved many of the meeting rooms at the headquarters on Friday as well as small rooms typically used by suppliers to pitch products to the retail giant. In addition, some Wal-Mart department directors were told to cancel travel this week or make sure they come to the office on Friday.







