NEW YORK (Real Money) -- Jim Cramer fills his blog on RealMoney every day with his up-to-the-minute reactions to what's happening in the market and his legendary ahead-of-the-crowd ideas. This week he blogged on:

Click here for information on RealMoney, where you can see all the blogs, including Jim Cramer's -- and reader comments -- in real time.

Must Read: Rate Hike in October Still a 'Possibility,' Says Yellen

Why Raise Rates When Technology's Around?

Posted on Sept. 17 at 11:39 a.m. EDT

Faster, better, cheaper, more with less. That's the undercurrent of every executive's sales pitch out here in San Francisco. You bring their wares in, your company saves money while growing revenues, the holy grail of all successful operations.

But the word these tech chieftains don't talk about is "lower," as in hiring lower-waged people to do the remaining jobs that aren't wiped out by the automation they are promoting.

As I talk with technology leaders, I realize their innovations are perhaps the reason why there's no need to raise interest rates in this country despite strong employment. That's because it's not the kind of rising employment that the Fed needs to fret about. Innovation like what we see on display at the Dreamforce conference is all about companies paying less money to whoever's left in the enterprise after the new technology eliminates the middle manager and the minions who support her.

Sure, there's a bidding war for the highest-level talent out here. However, that's because there is a shortage of code writers, a shortage of computer scientists and computer engineers. Blame the U.S. school system on that, though, something the Fed can't control. Other than that esteemed cohort, there's a surfeit of individuals searching for decent, higher-waged jobs.

You know why there's such a battle to raise the minimum wage all over the country? Technology, that's why. If state and federal governments didn't artificially try to get wages up, they would most likely be plummeting via innovation.

There's a surplus of laid-off, once-higher-paid workers whose jobs have been destroyed -- or we can use the euphemism "disrupted" -- by the technology that's invented 24-7 here and around the nation.

Take Salesforce.com (CRM - Get Report) . A principal emphasis of this company is to be able to run your business on your cellphone, no matter whether you manage General Electric (GE - Get Report) or Home Depot (HD - Get Report) or Philips (PHG - Get Report) or a host of companies in pretty much every single industry. Think about how many people can be replaced by such a powerful platform. Salesforce.com makes it so the only people you need are revenue producers. Not the expensive support staff. (General Electric is part of TheStreet's Dividend Stock Advisor portfolio.)