Bloomberg via Getty Images St. Boniface Church in the Tenderloin district of San Francisco serves as a homeless shelter in a city where the tech boom has jacked up rent prices beyond reach for even some of the employed.

Having a full-time job and being homeless is not just a New York thing.

In the San Francisco Bay Area, home to some of the biggest and wealthiest companies in the world, there is a growing number of people who are gainfully employed but can’t afford rent as a decade-long tech boom inevitably gives rise to sprawling gentrification.

The San Francisco Chronicle profiled one such Bay Area resident who ferries Apple employees during the day but sleeps on an air mattress in his 1997 Dodge Caravan at night.

Scott Peebles works for Compass Transportation, a company that provides shuttle services for Apple AAPL, +1.53% Zynga ZNGA, +2.11% eBay EBAY, +13.92% and Yahoo YHOO, +1.77% He earns roughly $30 a hour but has not been able to find a place to live near the bus yard that is within his budget, according to the newspaper.

Even when he finds apartments in his range — between $850 and $1,200 month — they are snapped up too quickly. And that has forced people like Peebles to either commute up to four hours a day or sleep in their cars.

Rent in the Bay Area has surged in the past several years, in part due to flush funds from the tech industry, which has been undergoing explosive growth on the back of the rise of tech titans like Apple and Google Inc. GOOGL, +1.39%

Average monthly rent in San Francisco jumped to $4,310, up from $3,785 a year earlier, according to Zillow. That compares with the national average of $1,381 and $2,202 in New York, a city notorious for its expensive rent.

“At night, some South Bay parking lots are dotted with cars hiding people catching a nap before their day jobs,” the Chronicle reported.

The irony in Peebles’s plight is that he moved out to San Jose last year to escape a house infested with bedbugs in New York, another metropolis that has recently been in the news for its working poor.

According to the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, there were 578,424 people homeless in January 2014, and California and New York lead the country in their homeless population.

More from MarketWatch