NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stocks were modestly lower by mid-morning Thursday after the latest check on the manufacturing sector showed activity teetering near contraction.

The S&P 500 was down 0.1%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 0.31%, and the Nasdaq fell 0.33%.

Manufacturing activity in the U.S. fell to 50.2 in September from 50.6 in August, according to the ISM Manufacturing Index. The reading sits just above the 50-level that separates contraction from growth. Analysts expected the measure to remain unchanged.

Construction spending climbed 0.7% in August, maintaining the same level of growth as a month earlier. Economists had expected growth to slow to 0.5%.

Must Read: 10 Big-Name Stocks That Are Already in Correction Territory

Crude oil prices moved higher after China's factory activity appeared to stabilize at a three-year low after months of sharper declines. The NBS Manufacturing PMI rose to 49.8 in September from 49.7 a month earlier, though remained in contraction. The Caixin manufacturing PMI inched higher to 47.2 from 47.

Improvement in the Chinese factory sector fueled hope that a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy may have hit a bottom. West Texas Intermediate crude oil spiked 3.2% to $46.51 a barrel.

Trading has been unpredictable this week ahead of the September jobs report. The release of the jobs data has taken on even more significance as Wall Street looks for signs U.S. economic strength is still intact after the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates unchanged in September.

Economists expect 200,000 jobs to have been added to nonfarm payrolls in September, up from 173,000 in August. The unemployment rate is forecast to remain steady at 5.1%, while year-over-year growth in average hourly earnings is expected to climb to 2.4% from 2.2%.

"Such readings would not be enough to cause the Fed to become more introspective, but readings above those expected could complicate the debate," argued David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial, in a note.

Continuing unemployment claims hit a 15-year low of 2.191 million, down from 2.244 a week earlier, according to the Labor Department. The measure indicates that the labor market continues to tighten and that the monthly jobs number will meet healthy expectations.

The dip in continuing claims came even as the weekly measure of new filings for unemployment benefits increased. Weekly jobless claims, which tend to be a more volatile measure, rose by 10,000 to 277,000 in the week ended Sept. 26.

Stocks ended their worst quarter in four years on Wednesday. Wall Street had suffered heavy losses over the quarter after the threat of a Chinese slowdown began to materialize and confidence in the U.S. economic recovery was undermined by the Fed's trigger-shy approach to monetary policy.

General Motors (GM - Get Report) spiked more than 1% after unit sales jumped nearly 13% in September. Analysts had expected growth of no more than 7%. By brand, Chevrolet sales climbed 11%, Buick sales were up 5%, and Cadillac sales added nearly 8%.

Ford (F - Get Report) sales climbed 23% over the month, just above analysts' estimates of a 22% increase. The double-digit increase was helped along by a later Labor Day holiday this year. Ford shares climbed nearly 1%.

Wal-Mart (WMT - Get Report) shares rose more than 1% on reports the world's largest retailer is planning to lay off hundreds of workers at its Arkansas headquarters. The company recently increased the minimum wages of store workers.

Dunkin' Brands (DNKN - Get Report) fell more than 8% after its full-year outlook fell short of analysts' estimates. The doughnut chain expects to earn between $1.87 and $1.91 a share over the full year, below estimates of $1.92, while revenue will likely grow no more than 8% compared to average expected growth of 7.9%. The company also expects to close 100 U.S. stores in 2015 and 2016.

Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) and Google (GOOGL) agreed to dismiss all pending patent lawsuits against one another, including around 20 different lawsuits in Germany and the U.S. The lawsuits include patents for mobile phones an wireless networking technology. The two tech giants also said they would begin to collaborate on a number of patents.

Twitter (TWTR) shares were slightly lower after spiking more than 5% on Wednesday. The social network had climbed on reports co-founder Jack Dorsey will assume the position of permanent CEO after acting as interim chief since June, according to Re/code. Former CEO Dick Costolo stepped down in early June.

ConAgra (CAG) will cut around 1,500 jobs and move its headquarters to Chicago from Omaha, Neb., as the company attempts to trim costs as part of a restructuring plan. The job cuts make up around 30% of its office workers. No plant positions will be cut.