NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) stock is gaining by 2.17% to $46.56 in early afternoon trading on Monday.

At a media event on Tuesday, Microsoft is expected to announce at least two premium Lumia smartphones powered by the company's Windows 10 operating system, the Wall Street Journal reports. Microsoft is switching its focus away from the mass market and instead toward niche markets such as businesses, where it hopes to have an advantage, the Journal adds.

Microsoft, based in Redmond, WA, develops, licenses and supports a range of software products and services. The company also designs and sells hardware, and delivers online advertising to customers.

TheStreet's Bryan Ashenberg and Bob Lang of Trifecta Stocks have identified Microsoft as the "Chart of the Day." Here is what Ashenberg and Lang had to say about the company:

Microsoft's stock fell near its 52-week low in August, but since then, it has performed admirably. The stock did not even go back to retest the low around $40, and has instead powered up. That is strength.



Last Friday's action makes a compelling argument for a bullish move going forward. The stock is only 10% below the recent highs and crossed important resistance and filled a gap. It is now above all moving averages, and the Moving Average Convergence Divergence has turned higher on a buy signal. The relative strength is impressive.



Last week, we profiled Intel (INTC) as the chart was starting to break out. This one today on Microsoft confirms something is getting better in big tech land.

Want more like this from Bryan Ashenberg and Bob Lang BEFORE your stock moves? Learn more about Trifecta Stocks now!

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates MICROSOFT CORP as a Buy with a ratings score of B-. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) a BUY. This is driven by a few notable strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its reasonable valuation levels, expanding profit margins, largely solid financial position with reasonable debt levels by most measures and notable return on equity. We feel its strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had sub par growth in net income.