NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) have been on a tear of late --at yesterday's close, the stock had completed its sixth straight gain, rising just shy of 10% in the process -- but it appears to be headed for a pullback.



Microsoft was able to power past heavy moving average resistance as last week came to a close, but after further gains this week, the upside momentum appears to have faded. For patient investors, this will likely lead to a healthy pullback -- and with it a low-risk entry opportunity.





With little buying pressure, the stock's range-bound action appeared ready to continue, but on Friday of last week, the pattern changed in a big way. Microsoft mounted an impressive turnaround following a weak open and by the close had put considerable distance on the $45 area. This

At this morning's early peak, Microsoft had stretched its powerful rebound off the August low to a 20% gain. Last month the stock remained in a relatively tight range as shares consolidated just below heavy resistance near $45. This key area marked the mid point of Microsoft's 2015 range as well as its declining 50- and 200-day moving averages With little buying pressure, the stock's range-bound action appeared ready to continue, but on Friday of last week, the pattern changed in a big way. Microsoft mounted an impressive turnaround following a weak open and by the close had put considerable distance on the $45 area. This breakout move extended into this week, but volume has tailed off as shares rose.

With momentum fading, shares of Microsoft are headed for a healthy pullback. Considering the extent of the post-Aug. 24 rally, a rest is well-deserved. The rally extension so far in October has left behind layers of support. For patient investors, a retest of these levels will present opportunity.



Microsoft bulls should focus on the $45-to-$44 area in the near term. The top band includes the September high as well as both the 50- and 200-day moving averages. The lower band marks the October low. A close back below this level would be a clear warning sign that Microsoft will need more than a simple pullback before returning to rally mode.



