Car making has proved a ruthlessly competitive business in recent years, but reports that Apple Inc. is ready to throw its hat in the ring have analysts optimistic it will succeed where others have failed.

Reaction to reports that Apple AAPL, +1.53% is building an electric – and potentially autonomous – car has been overwhelmingly positive.

“It shows how bold they’re being in their bets on the future now,” said Roger Kay, president of technology consulting company Endpoint Technologies.

The potential total addressable market “is enormous,” said a group of Morgan Stanley analysts led by Adam Jonas and Katy Huberty in a note to clients on Wednesday.

Having a company like Apple -- with its immense resources and long history of building popular consumer tech products -- throw its weight behind electric vehicles, could potentially “accelerate development and consumer adoption,” the Morgan Stanley analysts said.

Apple recently became the first U.S. company to surpass $200 billion in cash and short- and long-term securities. By that metric, it would take all of the cash held by Microsoft Corp. MSFT, +1.76% , Google GOOGL, +1.39% and Cisco CSCO, +2.58% combined to match that of Apple.

Ashlee Vance, a BusinessWeek columnist and author of the book “Elon Musk” about the visionary Tesla Motors Inc. TSLA, +0.78% CEO, said the auto industry would be in “for a rude awakening” if Apple entered the market and Tesla stayed its course.

If Apple does make a car and Elon keeps trucking, the rest of the auto industry is in for a rude marketing awakening — Ashlee Vance (@valleyhack) September 9, 2015

But not everyone is as enthusiastic, and some even question whether Apple will be able to successfully break into the market at all, let alone thrive.

Apple’s immense resources don’t matter as much to investors if it invests all of this money in a car and then struggles to turn a profit, said Edison Investment Research analyst Rich Windsor.

Apple typically earns 40% gross margin on its products, and unless it can earn 40% gross margins on the various components of the vehicle -- wheels, brakes, shock absorbers, sheet metal, etc. -- an automobile would be “significantly margin dilutive,” said Windsor.

“This is about return on investment, it doesn’t matter how much cash you have,” he said. “Gross margins will be less than the average, and I suspect that will have a substantial impact on the stock.”

13/ If Apple fails at Car, Watch alone doesn't make the math work. Perhaps if you are wildly optimistic about other wearables. — Paul Kedrosky (@pkedrosky) September 10, 2015

Windsor and others are also skeptical that a team of 1,800 is enough to transition Apple into an already crowded and fiercely competitive space, particularly when Apple has no track record in auto dynamics. The Wall Street Journal this week reported that Apple has been cleared to triple its car team from the current 600.

“With Apple Car, Apple is leaping into new [and] totally different markets, under a CEO not exactly reputed for his visionary status,” said Paul Kedrosky, co-founder and managing partner at SK Ventures, an early-stage venture company.

However, Apple has been hiring automotive talent, including former Chrysler executive Doug Betts, who joined Apple in Cupertino in July.

Tesla, meanwhile, started with much less. In its initial public offering prospectus, Tesla reported having 514 employees worldwide as of the end of 2009, all operating under the direction of a CEO who, at the time, had more experience in software and online payments than he had in cars and electric-based transport. For what it’s worth, Tesla doubled its staff in 2014 and now has 10,161 employees.

There’s no question that technology and transportation continue to merge. Morgan Stanley’s analysts said the intertwining markets may force investors to “rethink their assumptions and expectations” about the competitive landscape among both established and aspiring auto makers.

“A potential confirmation of Apple making a move into the car industry could represent one of the most important moments in the history of transportation,” they said.

Shares of Apple were up 0.6% to $114.03 in recent trade. They are down more than 10% over the last three months, in-line with the decline of the broader Dow Jones Industrial Average.

More from MarketWatch