The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced for a fifth consecutive session Thursday—its longest winning streak this year.

Gains in the broader stock market came after minutes from the Federal Reserve’s latest policy meeting, released at 2 p.m. Eastern, offered few surprises, showing that Fed officials were largely hesitant to hike rates for the first time in nearly a decade due to worries about global risk.

“There was not anything surprising in the minutes, as we already knew why they decided to hold off the interest-rate hikes, so markets saw no obstacles to climb,” said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial.

The late-day rally for stocks was preceded by nervous trading as investors awaited details on the thinking behind the Fed’s decision to leave rates unchanged in September.

Read: Fed minutes show worries about overseas led to caution at rate meeting

“There is a relief that the Fed acknowledged China, but also said its impact will be transitory,” said Ryan Larson, head of equity trading, U.S. RBC Global Asset Management.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +1.87% gained 138.46 points, or 0.8%, to 17,050.75, closing above 17,000 for the first time since August. Caterpillar Inc. CAT, +2.87% lead gainers and rose 2.3%.

The S&P 500 index SPX, +1.66% added 17.60 points, or 0.9%, to 2,013.43, closing above its 50-day moving average. The Nasdaq Composite COMP, +1.65% ended the day up 19.64 points, or 0.4%, at 4,810.79, overcoming a slumping biotech sector that had weighed it down for most of the session.

Larson noted that the S&P 500 surpassing the 2,000 level and trading above its 50-day moving average has improved investors’ optimism.

Some market participants attributed gains in the stocks after the minutes were released to a lack of surprises to deter investors.

Need to know: Why this stock-market rebound isn’t just a ‘flash in the pan’

Fed minutes: A violent pullback in the stock market and concerns about China were critical in the Federal Reserve’s decision to keep interest rates near zero, the newly released minutes show. “Many [officials] acknowledged that recent global economic and financial developments may have increased the downside risks to economic activity somewhat,” the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee said.