When it comes to pricey pencils, Apple’s AAPL, +1.53% new writing instrument has more than a few rivals.

Granted, the Apple “pencil” isn’t a pencil in the wood-and-graphite sense (or even the mechanical pencil sense). It’s a stylus that’s designed to be used in conjunction with the iPad Pro. Introduced at Wednesday’s Apple live event, it costs $99, and is actually cheaper than some traditional high-end pencils.

Graf von Faber-Castell Perfect Pencil —platinum-plated version.

Consider the Graf von Faber-Castell Perfect Pencil, which sells for as much as $10,000 in a limited-edition white gold version. (The white gold portions are the extender and end piece that attach to the physical pencil.) Looking for something cheaper? You could opt for the same Faber-Castell pencil in a platinum-plated version for $260. Or you could go with the Mont Blanc Meisterstück Solitaire Doué mechanical pencil for $585.

Also see: Everything from Apple event: iPhone 6S, Apple TV with Siri, iPad Pro

Are such pencils worth it? Experts in writing instruments say a quality pencil can make writing a true pleasure, be it because of the satisfying heft of the pencil’s weight in the hand or how little pressure is required to make a literal mark. But experts also say anything in the three to five-digit price range is a lot more about the packaging and extras – think white gold – than the actual writing experience. Nevertheless, John Gamber, editor of the Pencil Revolution blog, calls the Faber-Castell Perfect Pencil “a wonderful piece of pencilry,” though he concedes he usually brings it out only for special occasions (“weddings and the like”).

Why Serena Williams wins: The finger roll toss (2:13) Here's a look at the remarkable ball toss that Serena Williams, the world's No. 1 ranked tennis player, uses that helps disguise her serves.

Of course, if you’re on a tighter budget, you can spend much less and still make that mark. Caroline Weaver, owner of CW Pencil Enterprise, a one-of-a-kind New York emporium that specializes in the namesake writing instrument, says she’s partial to a Japanese-made pencil that she sells for $2.50. “The graphite is milled really well,” she says, explaining the result is a smooth writing experience.

Cursive may be going out of fashion, but if you just want your basic grade-school worthy yellow pencil, Weaver sells those, too – her preferred brand is one called Semi-Hex. The price? A mere 50 cents apiece.