NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Jim Cramer is no longer responding to viewers individually on social media, but he's still answering their questions about stocks on TheStreetTV.

In Wednesday's segment, Cramer was asked whether he's still bullish on Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) and Intel (INTC - Get Report) . Cramer said he thinks Microsoft is having a decent quarter, but he's not sure if Intel is. The action inMicrosoft is "just fantastic," he said, and pointed out that TheStreet's Real Money writer Bob Lang recently wrote that Microsoft and Intel have been basing for a long time, and can now go to new highs.

Another viewer asked whether recent changes at Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) are enough to fix the company's problems with sluggish user growth. Twitter has just launched a curation tool called Moments, which Cramer said he loves. But Cramer added that Twitter has to go out and sell it. '"One of things that Twitter doesn't understand is that you have to be in sell mode when you're a good tech company," said Cramer. "They've got to come on the road, they've got to proselytize, they've got to meet with big users, they really have to explain it."

To the viewer wondering whether General Mills' (GIS - Get Report) recent Cheerios recall was just a bump in the road, Cramer said that it was, asserting that it's a great opportunity to buy General Mills. In the same vein, Cramer also said WhiteWave Foods (WWAV - Get Report) has been down a lot, and he would buy that too. (It's a big holding for the Action Alerts PLUS portfolio, which he manages.)

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

On the question of whether oil has bottomed, Cramer responded that bottoming doesn't necessarily imply a rebound in crude prices is coming. Oil, he predicts, will be locked in a range of $43 to $53; he doesn't think the price goes back to $70 to $80. Under these circumstances, Cramer suggests investing in ExxonMobil (XOM) rather than Chevron (CVX) .

Another viewer asked whether Amgen (AMGN) , Biogen (BIIB) and Celgene (CELG) were still best of breed biotechs, though they've recently gotten hammered. Cramer said they are under pressure, but asserted that he wants to add Biogen stock back to his Action Alerts PLUS portfolio, and said Celgene is cheaper than other drug stocks he follows, like Eli Lilly (LLY) and Bristol Myers (BMY) .

Finally, a viewer asked whether Bluebird Bio's (BLUE) valuation is too high. Watch Celgene, Cramer said -- that will tell you whether Bluebird stock can go up.

You can send questions to Cramer on his Facebook (FB) page, or follow him on Twitter @JimCramer and send questions using #CramerQ.