David Tepper, one of the world’s most closely-tracked hedge-fund managers, made the case Thursday for taking some money off the table when it comes to the stock market.

In an interview with CNBC, the founder of Appaloosa Management suggested earnings expectations for 2016 are too lofty and that stocks might struggle as corporate margins face a squeeze and China and emerging markets continue to shed foreign-exchange reserves.

“I’m not probably as bullish as I could be because I have problems with earnings growth, I have problems with multiples, I have…all kinds of problems, so I can’t really call myself a bull,” Tepper said.

Taking some money off the table if fully invested is “probably not a bad idea,” Tepper said.

“If you’re an average guy, over time you probably will do well in the stock market. We’re not talking about crashes here or massive misvaluations, we’re talking about a market that should correct,” Tepper said. “The question is, what is that level?”

In the past, corrections of 10% to 20% happened “all the time,” Tepper said. “Guess what? It is back to the future time. If we had a 20% correction or a 15% correction, I would buy.”

Tepper is known for speaking bluntly, albeit rarely in public. His highflying track record since founding Appaloosa two decades ago has made him among the most influential investors in the market today. Prominent investor Josh Brown, in his Reformed Broker blog, last year declared Tepper the man of the moment in financial markets. Also see: The rise of David Tepper.

While hedge funds have faltered in 2015, Appaloosa is up 12% after fees in the year-to-date through August, according to CNBC. The fund saw a meager net return of 2.2% in 2014, but posted a 42% return in 2013 and has seen only three down years in its history, according to the cable channel.

Tepper also said he sees Apple Inc. AAPL, +1.53% as a “cheap stock” at its current valuation, and that he’s maintaining his position in the company. Apple shares were up 2.2%, erasing its Wednesday decline. Tepper also said he sold out of his position in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Inc. BABA, +2.17% in early July.

More from MarketWatch