Adds Cheetah Mobile stock drop in 13th paragraph.



NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Google (GOOGL - Get Report) unveiled multiple new devices Tuesday that will compete with Apple (AAPL - Get Report) , Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) and Amazon (AMZN - Get Report) as they help users better connect their smartphones and televisions.

The company revealed two Chromecast streaming devices for TVs and speakers, a tablet computer and devices from the company's Nexus line of Android mobile phones, The New York Times reported.

Google and Apple both envision a future where TVs are a vessel for the Internet, the newspaper said, but Google's strategy puts the mobile phone at the center as a sort of remote control, rather than having separate devices for music and TV.

Google's Pixel C tablet features a detachable keyboard, similar to products offered by Microsoft and Apple, and will be available in time for the holiday shopping season, Bloomberg reported.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

The new Nexus smartphones from Huawei and LG Electronics have better cameras, stronger batteries and an updated operating system to compete with Apple's iPhone, and they'll start shipping in October, according to Bloomberg.

The Chromecast device, with its first major upgrade, is easier to set up and plug into a TV, has an improved wireless antenna and is shaped like a small hockey puck, Bloomberg reported. Chromecast allows users to stream movies and videos from the Web to their TVs, competing with Amazon, Apple and Roku. Google also introduced a Chromecast Audio device to stream just to speaker systems.

Google stock declined 0.3% in a down market, to close at $622.61. Apple fell 3% to $109.06, Amazon dropped 1.6% to $496.07 and Microsoft rose 0.4% to $43.44.

Twitter (TWTR) rose amid reports that it's considering tweaking one of its fundamental features by allowing longer tweets.

Re/code cited people familiar with the company's plans as saying Twitter is considering allowing users to publish long-form content to the service and removing things like links and user handles from the character count to provide more space.

The company's trademark 140-character tweet limit has long been under discussion, the website said, and has resurfaced under interim CEO Jack Dorsey as a potential way to boost its user base.

Dorsey is in fact the one spearheading the project, known as "140 Plus," the Wall Street Journal reported.

Twitter stock rose 1.3% to $25.59.

Cheetah Mobile (CMCM) dropped 11% to $14. CEO Sheng Fu told Re/code that the stock has fallen by more than half from its 52-week high mostly just because it has its headquarters in China, and investors are worried about the economy there.



Cheetah Mobile, which focuses on free, ad-supported apps, gets more than half its business from overseas, but many of its investors are from China and are selling their shares to raise cash, he told the Web site.

Moko Social Media (MOKO) , a multimedia platform developer whose products include the REC*IT and Speakiesy apps and the RunHaven and Blue Nation Review Web sites, climbed 7.7% to $3.23, while Gigamon (GIMO) fell 11% to $19.11, both on no apparent news.