NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Silicon Valley is home to the top global brands for the third year in a row.

Apple (AAPL - Get Report) and Google (GOOGL - Get Report) once again claimed the top two spots, according to a report by Interbrand released Monday. Apple is valued at $170.3 billion, a 43% gain from last year, and Google's brand value grew 12% to $120.3 billion.

At No. 4 on the list, Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) edged past IBM (IBM - Get Report) , with respective values of $67.7 billion and $65.1 billion. Amazon (AMZN - Get Report) entered the Top 10 list for the first time, with a value of $38 billion. And Facebook's (FB) brand gained the most value since last year, with a 54% jump to $22 billion to come in at No. 23.

Technology brands make up more than a third of the total value of the top 100 on the list, Interbrand said.

Must Read: 5 Rocket Stocks to Buy for Fall Gains

Apple rose less than a percent Monday to close at $110.78. Google climbed 2.2% to $671.68. Microsoft advanced 2.3% to $46.63. IBM gained 3.1% to $149.04. Amazon rose 2.1% to $543.68. Facebook also added 2.1% to close at $94.01.

Twitter (TWTR) rose 7% after it named its co-founder and former leader, Jack Dorsey, as CEO once again, saying he'll also keep the top job at his mobile-payments company, Square.

Dorsey said both companies have increased their speed and urgency over the past three months, Bloomberg reported.

Twitter's board spoke with two dozen candidates in a quest to find someone who could dedicate themselves fully to the company, but chose Dorsey amid signs he was able to function in both roles effectively, according to Bloomberg.

Twitter closed at $28.16.

Google plans to invest in a round of funding for Symphony Communications Services that would value the messaging startup at $650 million, according to The Wall Street Journal.

Symphony's chat service allows financial firms, corporate customers and individuals to put all their digital communications on one centralized platform, according to Reuters.

It was created as an alternative to Bloomberg's terminals, which are a hallmark of trading floors but are viewed as a major cost center for financial firms, The Wall Street Journal reported.

IBM said Monday it will buy Cleversafe in a move to continue boosting its cloud storage capabilities. The companies declined to give terms of the deal.

Cleversafe specializes in the hybrid storage arena, meaning it mixes speedy flash drives and slower but less pricey disk drives to store data as appropriate, according to Forbes.