It’s now a ritual: Apple releases a new iPhone model, and U.S. imports soar.

That’s precisely what happened in August. U.S. imports rose 2% to a seasonally adjusted $233.4 billion, helping to push the nation’s trade deficit to a five-month high.

The increase in U.S. imports stemmed mainly from a 30% jump, to $9.1 billion, in a category known as “cellphones and other household goods.” Millions of iPhones were shipped to the U.S. in August so retailers would be ready to start selling them in September after the official launch.

Cell phones account for more than half of all the revenue and most of the growth in that category, which also includes dozens of unrelated items such as photo albums, knitting needles and hair clippers.

After more than a decade of explosive growth, cell phones have become one of the most heavily imported products into the United States. They now represent about 2.3% of all foreign-made goods that enter the country, U.S. Census data show.

The only imports of greater dollar value are autos, oil, computers, heavy machinery, clothing and telecommunications equipment — stuff like cell towers needed to enable wireless phones to work.

In the early 1990s, cell phones were a negligible part of the U.S. trade picture. Yet sales began to soar later in the decade as wireless networks and phones improved and the technology spread from business clientele to consumers.

The value of cell-phone imports posted double-digit percentage gains from 1994 to 2008, with most companies eventually shifting production to Asia to take advantage of lower costs.

Huge spikes in cell-phone imports first became a phenomenon in 2004 after the release of the first truly iconic device of the modern era: the Motorola Razr. It quickly became the industry’s best selling phone ever.

The Razr and other devices from Nokia NOK, +0.86% , Palm, Research in Motion (now Blackberry Ltd), Ericcson ERIC, +2.03% and others were eventually shunted aside by the breakthrough release of the first iPhone in 2007.

After a tidal wave of great early reviews, sales of the original iPhone soared. Demand was so strong that sales rose even as the U.S. fell into its worst recession since the Great Depression. The U.S. government also began to track cell-phones imports as distinct category for the first time.

Cell-phone sales and imports hit new heights in 2010 after Apple AAPL, +1.53% put out the highly regarded iPhone 4 and made the device available to Verizon VZ, +2.30% for the very first time. And imports surged again in 2013 when Samsung made a killing with the vaunted Galaxy 4, arguably the first true competitor to Apple.

Last year, cell-phone imports broke through the $50 billion barrier and they are on track to easily surpass that level again in 2015. Last week, Apple said it sold 13 million new iPhones in the first three days after they went on sale to set a new record.

That said, the iPhone is not built in America. Virtually all cell phones are manufactured in China or other low-cost Asian countries, though some parts are sourced from the American suppliers, and U.S.-based Apple engineers develop the designs and software.

Not surprisingly, the U.S. trade deficit with China, where most of Apple phones are made, climbed almost 15% in August to $32.9 billion.

More from MarketWatch