A day after the stock market and its biggest star stumbled and bumbled to the finish line, the mood early Thursday has been a bit more jaunty.

Apple AAPL, +1.53% — the largest company by market value — has a few pundits coming to its rescue. And U.S. stock futures US:ESU5 had been signaling a step higher at the open, though they’ve turned negative in recent trading, and today’s call and chart are both rather bearish.

“Apple investors get most excited by innovation,” but modest product revamps also can be fruitful, writes Dan Gallagher in a Heard on the Street column for The Wall Street Journal. The tech titan’s stock trades at a relatively cheap 11.5 times forward earnings, and “at this valuation, iteration can have its own rewards,” says former MarketWatcher Gallagher.

Read: Why Apple’s stock is a bargain

Other commentators argue that while Apple isn’t dazzling fanboys like in olden times, rival tech companies like Microsoft MSFT, +1.76% and Samsung SSNLF, +5.00% 005930, +0.70% aren’t doing any better. StockTwits users offer comments along these lines: “Is $MSFT impressing you more than $AAPL ? Is $SSNLF ? Is $HPQ ? Is Lenovo? Who?”

The Twitterverse had a field day making fun of Apple’s entry into the pencil industry, as well as its ginormous new iPad and other questionable decisions. But The Verge argues that Steve Jobs “would have wanted” the Apple Pencil, despite his famous disdain for gadgets that used a stylus. Apple is known to sit on market trends until the moment feels right, and that’s what happened with the new iPad Pro and its $99 stylus, Nick Statt says in the Verge piece.

Watch for more pundits leaping to Apple’s defense as the day unfolds — and let’s hope more criticism and comedy tied to the new gadgets. Here’s a Tweet that seems to show a BuzzFeed editor looking baffled at the iPad Pro’s hugeness:

Giant iPad pro + me, for scale. pic.twitter.com/WdL8OY5zTr — Nicole Nguyen (@itsnicolenguyen) September 9, 2015

Key market gauges

S&P futures US:ESU5 and Dow futures US:YMU5 are lower after modest early gains faded. European SXXP, +2.03% and Asian equities ADOW, +1.39% have dropped, with Japan’s Nikkei NIK, +2.11% erasing much of the prior day’s big gain. Oil US:CLV5 and gold GCZ5, +0.39% are rising, while the dollar DXY, -0.15% is slightly higher.

The economy

Weekly jobless claims came in at 275,000 and matched forecasts. A separate report said U.S. import prices fell by 1.8% in August, marking the biggest decline since the start of the year.

A big focus continues to be the Federal Reserve’s meeting next week, and widely followed Fed watcher Jon Hilsenrath said late Wednesday that the nation’s central bankers “aren’t near an agreement” on whether to raise interest rates. In other central bank news, the Bank of England on Thursday indicated that it’s unruffled by the recent China-inspired market turmoil and on track to hike rates next year.