SCHENECTADY, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

In an effort to avoid blackouts and meet the power needs of nearly 190 million people, the Punjab government in Pakistan is working to provide more affordable, reliable power as quickly as possible. To help reduce the projected 5 gigawatt (GW) energy shortfall, GE (GE) will provide two high-efficiency 9HA.01 gas turbines and associated equipment to Harbin Electric International Company Limited (HEI), a longtime business associate, for the new 1.1 GW Bhikki combined-cycle power plant. Harbin will handle engineering, procurement and construction of the plant.

The Bhikki plant will be able to generate the equivalent power needed to supply more than six million Pakistani homes, and is likely to be the largest, most efficient power plant in Pakistan. It is expected to enter commercial operation in 2017. This project marks the first HA orders in the Middle East and North Africa region and the 20th and 21st worldwide. GE’s 9HA is the world’s largest, most efficient gas turbine.

“We are committed to meeting the growing demand for power to drive industrial growth and all-round economic progress as well as to promote the welfare of our people,” said Ahad Khan Cheema, CEO, Quid-e-Azam Thermal Power Limited, on behalf of the government of Punjab. “As part of this, we are not only investing in new plants but also strengthening public-private collaboration to ensure that advanced technologies are deployed to meet the growing demand. GE and Harbin are moving forward with an accelerated time frame to add additional power to the grid.”

Joe Mastrangelo, president and CEO, gas power systems at GE Power & Water added, “The Bhikki project is another testament to the long-term commitment of GE to serve as an active partner in helping to meet Pakistan’s development needs. We have established strong partnerships in the power sector, and the introduction of our HA gas turbines, a significant first for the region, underlines our focus on bringing the latest technologies to enhance the operational efficiency and productivity of power plants.”

“The Bhikki combined-cycle plant is a strong example of technical collaboration between GE and Harbin in providing the most advanced combined-cycle power plant solutions,” said Mr. Guo Yu, chairman of HEI. “Deploying GE’s advanced HA technology is a game changer for the industry as it supports the government’s goal to ensure affordable, reliable and efficient power generation to meet growing demand.”

With the Bhikki plant, 21 HA units have been ordered and 68 HA units have been technically selected1 by customers around the world. GE’s H-class technology has been embraced by customers in Korea, Japan, the United Kingdom, Brazil, the United States, France, Russia, Germany, Turkey, Egypt, Pakistan and Argentina.

GE’s HA gas turbines provide a combination of the most output, highest efficiency and best operational flexibility and lead the industry in total life cycle value. The 9HA.01 offers a net combined-cycle efficiency of more than 61 percent and leads the industry with cleaner, reliable and cost-effective conversion of fuel to electricity.

The 9HA gas turbine completed off-grid, full-speed, full-load validation testing in January 2015 at the world’s largest, most thorough gas turbine test stand located at GE’s manufacturing facility in Greenville, South Carolina. This testing facility has attracted industry visitors from around the world.

Among key agreements in the country, GE has signed a memorandum of understanding with the government to develop Pakistan’s energy resources to meet the projected demand of 54,000 megawatts by the year 2020. GE will assist the government in achieving its goals by engaging in Pakistan's energy, transportation and water sectors and will work to identify potential sources of funding and explore potential investment opportunities in those sectors.

About Harbin Electric International

Harbin Electric International Company Limited (HEI) is an important member of the Harbin Electric Corporation, and is China’s leading large-scale enterprise in power project contracting and the export of power equipment. Established in 1983, HEI is primarily engaged in the engineering, procurement and construction of thermal, hydro and combined-cycle power plants, and the supply of complete sets of equipment; moreover, the company can be contracted to build large-scale transmission facilities and public utilities, and provides professional comprehensive after-sales service. Since 2014, HEI has expanded its business in power investment to help resolve a global shortage of electric power.

For more information, visit the company's website http://www.china-hei.com

About GE

GE (GE) is the world's Digital Industrial Company, transforming industry with software-defined machines and solutions that are connected, responsive and predictive. GE is organized around a global exchange of knowledge, the "GE Store," through which each business shares and accesses the same technology, markets, structure and intellect. Each invention further fuels innovation and application across our industrial sectors. With people, services, technology and scale, GE delivers better outcomes for customers by speaking the language of industry. www.ge.com

About GE Power & Water

GE Power & Water provides customers with a broad array of power generation, energy delivery and water process technologies to solve their challenges locally. Power & Water works in all areas of the energy industry including renewable resources such as wind and solar; biogas and alternative fuels; and coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear energy. The business also develops advanced technologies to help solve the world’s most complex challenges related to water availability and quality. Power & Water’s six business units include Distributed Power, Nuclear Energy, Power Generation Products, Power Generation Services, Renewable Energy and Water & Process Technologies. Headquartered in Schenectady, N.Y., Power & Water is GE’s largest industrial business.

For more information, visit the company's website at www.gepower.com and http://powergen.gepower.com.

Follow GE Power & Water and GE Power Generation on Twitter @GE_PowerWater and @ge_powergen.

1 A technical selection is one of the first steps in developing a new power plant. It means that if the power plant is constructed and commissioned, it will use GE gas turbines. Following technical selection, a developer will proceed with securing financing, permitting and more.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151014005988/en/