“Steve Jobs” hasn’t been released yet, but the film’s screenwriter, Aaron Sorkin, has been busy defending his portrayal of the visionary and complex Apple co-founder, fending off criticism from the late Steve Jobs’s inner circle.

Sorkin, who molded the distinctive, whip-smart voice behind the Emmy-winning “West Wing,” appeared on Trevor Noah’s “Daily Show” Tuesday evening to address the Apple feud. He began by issuing a blanket apology to anyone he’s offended, adding that he realizes Apple headquarters “is a building full of people that can hack into my hard drive and do anything they want.”

See also: Trevor Noah vows to continues the ‘war on B.S.’ in 4 essential clips

“Steve Jobs,” which opens Friday and stars Michael Fassbender, Seth Rogen and Kate Winslet, is basking in serious critical praise, catapulting the film to a 93% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Variety writes that Fassbender’s performance as Jobs “fuels this brilliant, infuriating and richly unconventional take on the life of an American visionary.” The Wrap describes the movie, based on the Walter Isaacson biography published shortly after Jobs’s death, as “stunning” and “relentless,” a riveting film that delves into how we measure success and failure as Jobs struggles both professionally and personally.

Everett Collection Inc. Michael Fassbender leads the march into a new century as Steve Jobs.

However, many who were close to Jobs, including his widow, Laurene Powell Jobs, have blasted the film for depicting the Apple inventor as “cruel and inhumane.”

Watch video: Steve Jobs’s widow takes aim at Hollywood biopic

Apple CEO Tim Cook hinted on Stephen Colbert’s “Late Show” in September that he wasn’t on board with “Steve Jobs,” saying broadly of the films seeking to chronicle the story of Jobs and the digital revolution: “I think that a lot of people are trying to be opportunistic, and I hate this. It’s not a great part of our world.”

“This movie is not a biopic,” Sorkin emphasized on Noah’s show. “You don’t land on the character’s greatest hits along the way.”

He said the film is divided into three acts, offering a behind-the-scenes, backstage look at three iconic product launches: the Macintosh in 1984, the NeXT “Cube” in 1988 and the iMac in 1998. It also follows Jobs’s personal conflicts as his career plays out, centering on a strained relationship with a daughter who would not speak to Isaacson while Jobs was alive.

But she was willing to speak to Sorkin, according to an interview with Business Insider. Sorkin said the stories she told him about her father “weren’t necessarily flattering,” but they did show how much he loved her. He said their talk inspired him to build a central theme of the film around the complexity of the father-daughter relationship.

Now that the film has wrapped, “I’m absolutely done with Silicon Valley,” he joked on “Daily Show.” “You don’t want to make these people mad at you.”

This isn’t the first time Sorkin has agitated Silicon Valley. Last year, he apologized to Mark Zuckerberg for upsetting him with his screenplay for 2010’s “The Social Network.”

The Facebook founder had said during a town hall Q&A session that he felt the film was “hurtful.” “They made up this whole plot line about how I somehow decided to create Facebook to attract girls,” Zuckerberg said of the film, which explored the origin story of the world’s biggest social-media network.

Sorkin himself admitted that he wasn’t very tech-savvy, saying it took him five minutes to find the power button on his Mac.

More from MarketWatch