This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

on his way to Washington DC for a summit with us President Obama ... she Jinping Chinese president is hoping low latency Apple ... then he will meet with some of the biggest names in corporate America ... Warren Buffett ... can Cook of Apple in the wee You capsicum ... and office ... and told me it will be a freebie is important if not more important ... than the ones he holds in the White House ... that's because business is traditionally been the last of the U S China relationship ... business has flourished even when other aspects of the relationship political mail entries security are in trouble ... as they are now in disputes that receive ... over Chinese island building in the South China Sea ... that supported the relationship is now stocking to crumble ... she's been eating ... is not the president ... that he was advertised ... at least when it comes to business ... he was running for ... office isn't under ... the heading the mythical reputation as being pro market ... pro private enterprise ... as president he's been pursuing a different kind of agenda ... politics are more important ... than economics his priority is to save the Communist Party and is doing that ... with the anti corruption campaign has sold a lot of these images ... it has been accompanied by a harsh selloff their brand of nationalism American companies and trying them are starting to worry about all cyber attacks aimed at stealing their ... secrets ... it's taking longer and longer for products to be approved ... and ... technology companies in particular find themselves excluded from lucrative areas of the man was killed on financial services ... and telecommunications ... starting to look to some American companies still presidency ... is holding back on China's reform and opening from ... a project that was launched by counsel came ... back in the late nineteen seventies ... the soulful wiping off its ... bilateral trade last year was was almost six hundred billion dollars ... to improve on that all countries and to cooperate ... think of business lessons on so called strategic ... rival ... you see Apple ... presidency has ... stalled albeit Swayze the executives he meets ... that as president ... he means business ... given his track record ... that's gotta be a tough sell ... but the future of U S China relations to a considerable degree will depend on ...