Demand for video you can stream on the go in the U.S. and China is growing, and it’s growing fast.

A new report from research companies app analytics and App Annie found that revenue from video-streaming apps in the U.S. more than tripled in the 12 months through July 31 from the same period a year earlier, while revenue in China was nearly 10 times higher.

App Annie said strong adoption of the iPhone 6 in China may have helped push revenue growth of the top 10 video-streaming apps on iOS. Revenue in the U.K. remained flat, likely due to the structure of its traditional TV industry, App Annie reported.

The data was gathered from Apple Inc.’s AAPL, +1.53% iOS App Store and Google Inc.’s GOOGL, +1.39% Google Play. YouTube was the most downloaded video-streaming app in the U.S., while Time Warner Inc.’s TWX, +1.97% HBO Now topped the list by revenue.

Read also: Netflix and Google are streaming into overdrive

Top 5 video streaming apps by revenue in the U.S. Rank App Company 1 HBO Now Time Warner 2 MLB.com At Bat Major League Baseball 3 Hulu Comcast, Disney, 21st Century Fox 4 NFL Mobile The National Football League 5 Disney Junior Appisodes Disney App Annie

App Annie views the addition of HBO Now and Hulu, a joint venture of Comcast Corp.’s CMCSA, +0.97% NBCUniversal, 21st Century Fox Inc. FOX, +1.86% and Walt Disney Co. DIS, +2.87% to the top 10 apps by revenue as a sign that the trend of cord-cutting and unbundling is gaining pace in the U.S.

Netflix Inc.’s NFLX, -0.65% app was No. 2 in the U.S. for downloads, above Hulu at No. 3. Amazon.com Inc.’s AMZN, +1.46% Instant Video took the ninth spot.

Also see: Netflix has star-studded original content up its sleeve

The report found that in China, the same nine companies are in the top 10 apps by revenue and downloads. App Annie expects China’s growth to continue, spurred by Alibaba’s subscription video service Tmall Box Office, which is expected to launch on mobile in the near future.

Looking forward, eSports is likely to be a major growth driver in video streaming, according to the report. YouTube, and Amazon’s Twitch were the fastest-growing apps in the U.S. which bodes well for YouTube Gaming App Annie said.

Check out: 27 million watched this video game tournament—matching NCAA final audience

More from MarketWatch