Tony Robbins explains the intricate rules and importance of investing in your 401k

This week we’ll get an important read on the Financials sector as 5 of the country’s biggest banks report Q3 results.

Goldman Sachs to report best quarter since financial crisis despite headwinds

New fundraising data show half a dozen may have to drop out soon.

The giant automaker says battery breakthroughs for electric cars are happening faster than expected.

Apple CEO Tim Cook was in high spirits on Monday, offering his vision on the future of music, television and automobiles.

Here's how your favorite companies are celebrating "Back to the Future"

Giphy co-founder and CEO, Alex Chung tells us why and he's planning to revolutionize search on the internet.

Minecraft is about to launch its next big thing: “Story Mode: Episode One: The Order of the Stone,” its first narrative game. The game, which launches digitally October 13th and in stores October 27th, will be a five-part series following four main characters. In the story, the lead character, Jesse, who is voiced by Patton Oswalt, will try to save the world.

In honor of the new focus on character-driven narrative, there will be a big, splashy Hollywood premiere tonight ahead of the launch complete with “Redstone carpet” and all the other bells and whistles of a Hollywood film premiere.

Players will get to control the story like a “Choose your own adventure” novel, based on decisions they make throughout the game. The narrative format will also include voiceover dialogue throughout the game, also a change from past versions.

But is the story necessary? Already there are countless YouTube channels dedicated to streaming people playing Minecraft. And they receive millions – in some cases even billions - of views.

One famous YouTube player, Jordan “CaptainSparklez” Maron, just paid $4.5 million for a mansion in L.A., according to Variety. Videos of “CaptainSparklez” playing Minecraft on YouTube have been viewed more than 1.7 billion times.

Microsoft (MSFT) bought Minecraft developer Mojang in September 2014 for $2.5 billion, so it sees some value in the game, potentially in driving traffic to its mobile products.

If you’re over the age of about 25 you’ve probably thought to yourself at least once when it comes to Minecraft: I don’t get it.

Whether you get it or not, creator of Minecraft, Markus Persson, probably cares little. He bought his own Beverly Hills mansion for $70 million.

More from Yahoo Finance

Millennials explain what defines their generation: It gets pretty depressing

The 10 youngest people on the Forbes 400 list and how they got there

The most powerful person in finance may surprise you