Volkswagen AG’s finance unit is seeing funding costs rise as turmoil from the diesel-cheating scandal spreads, adding to the beleaguered carmaker’s woes.

The banking arm, which makes loans to auto buyers and dealerships and takes consumer deposits, may have to pay higher rates to customers and on securities backed by its loans, said Otto Dichtl, a credit analyst at Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd. That could squeeze profit and erode competitiveness.

“Don’t underestimate the effect on funding costs,” said Michael Huenseler, who helps manage more than 15 billion euros ($16.8 billion) at Assenagon Asset Management SA in Munich. “A lot of the cars are sold with a loan and more expensive financing could pressure margins.”

VW’s admission that it cheated on diesel emission tests wiped billions of euros from the company’s market value and led to the resignation of Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn last week. The automaker is facing a significant financial impact, including at least 6.5 billion euros it already set aside for repairs and recalls and a fine that may reach $7.4 billion, according to analysts from Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.

The shares fell as much as 3.4 percent in Frankfurt on Friday, and were down 2 percent to 103 euros as of 11:40 a.m. local time. That extended their drop since Sept. 18, the day the diesel cheating was disclosed, to 36 percent.

European Union car sales over the last nine years

To gauge the potential impact on VW’s finance arm, investors should look at what happened to the banking units of the French carmakers when sales plunged during the sovereign-debt crisis, said Carola Schuler, the co-head of European bank ratings at Moody’s Investors Service.

“The manufacturers were hit by a steep drop in car sales in southern Europe,” Schuler said. “What we saw there was a worsening of the auto banks’ loan portfolio. We could see the credit metrics of Volkswagen’s finance arm weaken.”

PSA Peugeot Citroen and Renault SA, France’s biggest carmakers, suffered in 2012 when demand for new autos in the European Union fell to the lowest level since 1995. The finance arm of Peugeot, the harder hit of the two, had to tap the government for debt guarantees to ward off collapse.

While VW’s finance arm is “well capitalized,” it faces potential losses if dealerships struggle to repay loans or the value of leased cars declines, said Schuler. Moody’s placed a negative outlook on the bond ratings of Volkswagen AG on Sept. 24 and did the same for the long-term debt of Volkswagen Financial Services AG the following day.

Shows the breakdown of Volkswagen's 147 billion euros of funding

Volkswagen Financial Services had a balance sheet amounting to 147 billion euros, or 39 percent of Volkswagen’s total assets at the end of June, company filings show. It held 25.7 billion euros of customer deposits.

Estimates for the costs from potential fines, the recall and modification of vehicles as well as losses on cars vary. Frank Biller, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, said total expenses could reach as much as 47 billion euros, while Credit Suisse Group AG’s analysis shows a range of 23 billion euros to 78 billion euros.

“We increasingly see risk in VW’s Financial Services business which supported industrial growth in the past,” Credit Suisse analysts including Alexander Haissl wrote in an e-mailed report on Friday. “Higher refinancing costs and risk provisioning makes it difficult for the FS to fund itself going forward; thus a capital injection would likely be required unless growth is reduced materially.”

Frank Witter, the 56-year-old head of the banking arm, will succeed Hans Dieter Poetsch as chief financial officer of Volkswagen, the company said Thursday. Poetsch will become chairman of the supervisory board.

ABS Suspension

Volkswagen’s asset-backed securities, which offer interest generated by pools of loans, have been suspended from an ECB purchase program designed to stoke economic growth, a person familiar with the decision said on Monday. The suspension will apply at least until a review of the securities is complete, the person said.

Marc Siedler, a spokesman for Volkswagen Financial Services, declined to comment.

Credit default swaps, which offer insurance against default, signal that investors are more wary of Volkswagen’s debt. They reached the highest intraday level in almost seven years on Tuesday. The yield on the carmaker’s 1 billion euros of senior unsecured bonds maturing in 2030 jumped as high as 3.6 percent this week from 2.4 percent on Sept. 18.

Huenseler at Assenagon cut his holdings in Volkswagen debt on Monday.

“There is a lot of uncertainty which can’t be assessed by means of credit-risk analysis, and that’s why we sold,” he said.