Schaeffler AG cut the size of its planned initial public offering by more than half and now seeks to raise only about 975 million euros ($1.1 billion), after the auto industry was buffeted by the Volkswagen AG emissions-testing scandal.

Schaeffler intends to sell an initial 75 million shares, setting a price range of 12 euros to 14 euros a share, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company said Monday in a statement. The stock is expected to start trading on Oct. 9, four days later than planned. The family-owned car parts and industrial ball bearings maker had previously intended to sell as many as 166 million shares.

“The negative sentiment caused by the Volkswagen case had led investors to ask for a higher IPO discount than we expected,” Klaus Rosenfeld, Schaeffler’s chief executive officer, said in an interview. “We have decided to reduce the transaction size.”

Schaeffler has demand for all the shares offered in the IPO, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named as the details aren’t public.

Talks with potential investors were overshadowed by revelations that Volkswagen, its biggest customer, had installed software to rig U.S. emissions tests in 11 million diesel engines worldwide. Volkswagen accounts for about 10 percent of Schaeffler’s annual revenue, Rosenfeld said. The carmaker’s troubles won’t significantly affect company revenue, while any shift to gasoline from diesel engines would support the company’s business, he said.

Schaeffler had initially intended to sell as many as 166 million shares, a stake of about 25 percent, and raise as much as 3 billion euros in the offering, according to people familiar with the company’s plans. The manufacturer may sell further tranches in the future, up to the 166 million-share level, Schaeffler said in the statement.

Difficult Environment

“It’s quite an elegant solution after the concerns about Volkswagen made the listing environment more difficult,” said Marc-Rene Tonn, a Hamburg-based analyst with Warburg Research. Concerns about the economy, including weaker-than-expected U.S. jobs data last week, may have also played a role, Tonn said.

The Volkswagen scandal contributed to a decision last week by plastics maker Covestro AG to lower the price range for its IPO, cutting the amount it plans to raise by 40 percent to 1.5 billion euros.

The share sale is set to help Schaeffler reduce debt it accumulated mainly during a takeover bid for German car-parts maker Continental AG in 2008. Schaeffler’s net debt stood at 6.24 billion euros at the end of the first half. The company also plans to use operating cash flow to pay down 1 billion euros in debt by 2018.

Investors view SKF AB, the world’s biggest manufacturer of bearings, as a listed comparable to Schaeffler’s ball bearings business and Continental AG, Europe’s second-biggest supplier of car parts, as a comparable to its automotive business, Rosenfeld said.

Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. are coordinating the IPO, with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and HSBC Holdings Plc as bookrunners, the term sheet for the sale showed.