CNBC's Phil Han reports on the brand new Samsung Gear S2 and finds out whether it has a shot against the market leading Apple Watch.

Trolling is a common practice on Twitter but could giant corporations be getting in on the act?

On Wednesday after the Apple launch event, some of the world's biggest electronics companies took to the social media site to take digs at the iPhone maker.

None other than Samsung – Apple's fiercest rival and the world's biggest smartphone maker – began the barrage of banter, taking a shot at the $99 Apple Pencil, its stylus for the new bigger-screen iPad Pro.

The South Korean electronics giant is referring to its S-Pen, the stylus that comes with the Note 5 that it released earlier this year.

Samsung then sent an amusing tweet playing on Apple's digital electronic assistant Siri, asking it what it thinks of its curved screen Galaxy S6 Edge.

And Samsung was not the only rival to take aim at Apple. Sony – which released its new Xperia Z5 series of smartphones earlier this month – chimed in, touting its device's longer battery life using Apple's invite as the image.

Samsung has been struggling with declining market share over the past year and a half which was further hit after Apple released its larger screen iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last September. Last month, the company even launched a scheme where it let iPhone users try out one of its latest flagship smartphones for a month for just $1.

Sony on the other hand, has failed to get any significant traction in the smartphone market with its mobile handset unit reporting a 22.9 billion yen ($189 million) operating lost for the three months ending June 30.

Samsung continued its slew of tweets and sent a post about its camera quality after Apple improved its camera with 12-megapixel sensors and the ability to shoot video in 4K or ultra-high definition. Samsung's Galaxy S6 boasts a 16-megapixel camera.

And Chinese electronics titan Huawei also jumped into the chatter tweeting a picture of its Mate S smartphone that it revealed last week but in a rose gold color. At its launch, Apple announced its own rose gold option for its iPhone 6s. Huawei's Mate S also has force touch technology which works in a similar way to the 3D Touch unveiled by Apple.

And in a cheeky tweet at the end of Apple's event, Samsung released a picture with its dual-curved screen S6 Edge that asked people if they were suffering from "post traumatic keynote disorder".