Jean-Claude Biver, Hublot chairman and Tag Heuer CEO, discusses partnering with Google and Intel for a smartwatch and the future of wearable tech.

Best possible partners for our new smartwatch: CEO

Tag Heuer will unveil its Android-powered smartwatch Nov. 9 at the LVMH building in New York, CEO Jean-Claude Biver told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Tuesday.

The connected device will cost $1,800, he said. Previous reports put the price at $1,400.

Tag Heuer, French luxury group LVMH's biggest watchmaker, announced in March it would launch a smartwatch using Google's Android operating system in a venture with Intel to compete head-on with the Apple Watch.



Apple has recently pushed further into the high-end market, announcing at its product launch earlier this month it would team up with luxury brand Hermes to offer bands to Apple Watch buyers.

Read More What we know about Apple Watch sales…so far



Biver told CNBC earlier this year he believed the Apple Watch would boost the timepiece industry by capturing the interest of young consumers, among whom watches are not in fashion. On Tuesday, he said he loved the Apple-Hermes deal because it shows that the smartwatch has cracked the luxury market.

"We were a little bit concerned about the price, because we're going to sell it at $1,800 ... and now we are quite reassured because Apple is telling us we can sell at $1,500 or even more," he said. "I'm very, very pleased."

The midlevel Apple Watch tops out at $1,099. The top-tier Apple Watch Edition runs as much as $17,000.



Biver said it would be "ridiculous" to try to chase Apple, which launched its watch in April. However, he said it was not possible to have better partners than Google and Intel.

Read More'Psych' actor Dulé Hill's role as smartphone app co-founder



Tag Heuer will also compete against Gucci, which is developing a smartband with i.am+, the consumer product brand created by musician will.i.am.

Biver is the president of LVMH's watch division and is CEO of Tag Heuer and chairman of Hublot.

—Reuters contributed to this story.

