"Obviously after two strong days of back-to-back gains a little profit taking is the order of the day," said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Rockwell Global Capital. "Any further strengthening in oil could propel stocks higher."



Crude oil futures settled up $2.27, or 4.91 percent, at $48.53 a barrel. Brent also held gains of more than 4 percent to trade above $51.40.

The Nasdaq composite underperformed, closing down about 0.7 percent after an intraday plunge of more than 1 percent. The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB) closed down 3.6 percent at $301.91, while Apple ended about half a percent higher.



"We saw this dynamic yesterday," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities. "If you look at the IBB, it hit support at $291 and saw resistance at $314."

Read MoreBernanke's legacy: A Fed that did too much?

The Dow Jones industrial average clung to gains of about 14 points after a mildly lower open, with UnitedHealth weighing the most on the index. DuPont closed up 7.66 percent to contribute the most to to gains.



After the close Monday, the chemical company's chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ellen Kullman announced plans to retire October 16. Director Edward Breen will serve as interim chairman and CEO. DuPont also cut its outlook for the year and announced an acceleration of its plans to trim expenses.

Stock performance Tuesday "will be a combination of preparing for earnings and what we'll see for the next few quarters," said Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group.



He didn't think the bottom has been put into the stock market yet. "Even with the rally of substance we're still below the major moving averages. The global growth story is weaker," Boockvar said.

The S&P, Nasdaq and Russell 2000 held below their 50-day moving averages. The Dow topped its 50-day moving average of 16,772 and closed above it for the first time since July 20.

The Dow transports closed above their 50-day moving average of 8.053.46 Monday for the first time since Sept. 17 but fell 1 percent Tuesday to end below that level.

Read MoreStreet waiting for clues on bottom in stocks

Before the opening bell, PepsiCo reporting earnings that beat on both the top and bottom line. The firm also raised its full-year growth target. Shares of Pepsi closed up 1.3 percent.

Yum Brands was scheduled to report after the close. The unofficial start to earnings season comes Thursday with Alcoa's earnings after the bell. The bulk of third-quarter earnings reports come in the next few weeks.



Nick Raich, CEO of The Earnings Scout, said that of the 20 S&P 500 companies that have reported so far, 85 percent have beat on earnings and 60 percent have beat on revenue.

"It's only 20 companies but it's an encouraging start to earnings season," he said. It's "a lot of consumer companies. We have yet to see a financial company or an earnings company report. ... Those are going to drag down the overall earnings."

Financials will likely see some pressure from the low interest rate environment, Raich said, while energy companies continue to face headwinds from low oil prices.