This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... Volkswagen has always been more than a hired ... occupies a special place in German society ... Volkswagen translates into the people's car ... in OBP is Germany Europe's car for the masses ... before the car sold in Europe is from the ZEW crew ... and of a global cultural icon ... I ... two hundred year-old Volkswagen ... the ... a with all the things that ... when he commissioned by the auto maker but it was cheating on emission standards it's still shocking ... looks like it's hard to books for the city built around the German auto maker ... is home to its headquarters in August on an Odyssey ... one of Germany's largest forced attractions ... most wagons roots go back to nineteen thirties ... when you know Hitler Chancellor of Germany a time and the right Association of the German automobile industry Commission Ferdinand Porsche to design a Volkswagen or People's armed ... will War to interrupted production of the first folks like it I wonder what the hell are as ... mass production of the deal began in nineteen twenty nine ... I ... by the nineteen fifties Volkswagen began exporting or deceased primarily to the U S and South America ... and as VW group ... more models were introduced ... in nineteen seventy to me to be produced its fifteen millionseven thousand and thirty four ... according to its main case ... it made the most produced automobile of all time ... breaking the forty five year old record set by the famous model T Ford ... in nineteen seventy four the production of the call ... it quickly became one of the deal these ... last hours ... but the company also had comes along the way ... after a number of two years to be Dhoby a group based in worldwide decline in vehicle sales ... as consumers demanded more economical vehicles ... he is tougher competition from Japanese manufacturers ... but despite a slowdown in new models continue to be launched in the nineteen eighties and nineties ... I ... looks like it also had its share of Hollywood exposure ... the ... ay ay ay ay ay ay ay ay ay ay ay ... and for some pretty dumb he was a fashion statement to the Beastie boys might be way Volkswagen and when one is changing ... and as they stormed onto the music scene in late nineteen eighties ... many of its peers started steering and its peoples PW Partners ... today ... the works for them is still the largest car actually under one roof in the world ... sixty percent of the Wolfsburg workforce ... works there ... and the company owns a local soccer team which plays at the highest level in Europe ... what began seventeen years it ... has a product to churn out low-cost Eagle ... has evolved into a global anti ... sells ten million crises are ... produced at more than a hundred factories ... in China ... Chattanooga Tennessee ...