A previous version of this report said Michael Horn was the former CEO of Volkswagen Group America. He is still the CEO. The story has been corrected.

Getty Images The company will have to make big changes to recover.

The scandal rocking car maker Volkswagen AG that has bruised the company’s reputation and crushed its market value has also been marked by a series of corporate communications missteps, public relations experts say.

News that Volkswagen installed devices meant to circumvent environmental protections in millions of cars broke late last week. The company’s halting and disjointed public response over the next several days, experts say, made a bad situation worse.

“The biggest thing you’re starting to see is this trickling of information. Everything is kind of slow,” said Justin Joseph, associate professor of crisis communications and management at Boston University’s College of Communication. “It keeps the story on the front pages.”

Accusations of the company’s cheating from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency became public on Friday, Sept. 18. Volkswagen VW, +3.24% didn’t immediately comment. On Sunday, former Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn issued a videotaped apology that acknowledged dishonesty but didn’t extensively detail the company’s cheating.

On Tuesday, Michael Horn—the chief executive of Volkswagen Group America -- finally admitted the company had “totally screwed up.” On Wednesday, Winterkorn stepped down. All the while, the size and scope of the scandal has widened as other countries and investors have contemplated legal action.

See also: German minister: VW fudged tests in light trucks

The company reacted at a pace that allowed the crisis to spin out of control as new revelations chipped at its reputation, experts say. Instead, some argue, the company could’ve commented in detail more quickly, releasing more information at a single time. “They’re moving subtly, a bit too subtly,” said Joseph.

Fraser Seitel, president of New Jersey public relations firm Emerald Partners and an adjunct public relations professor at New York University, said Winterkorn’s video apology, in which he appeared to deflect blame, was a “fatal mistake.”

See also: Volkswagen to dismiss Audi, Porsche R&D heads

“It would be wrong to cast suspicion on the honest hard work of so many because of the mistakes of only a few. Our team doesn’t deserve that,” Winterkorn said in the video. “That’s why…I’m personally asking for your trust as we move forward.”

That statement may have seemed to underplay the severity of the problems facing Volkswagen.

“This is a unique scandal in the sense that it was so unethical on its face. It was a complete deception,” said Seitel.