The Obama administration is “quite concerned” over allegations that Volkswagen cheated on U.S. emissions tests, a White House spokesman said Monday, but added it is up to the Environmental Protection Agency to investigate the matter.

“I think it’s fair to say that we’re quite concerned by some of the reports that we’ve seen about the conduct of this particular company,” spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters at a regular briefing.

On Friday, the Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board alleged that Volkswagen VLKAY, +0.47% VOW3, +0.94% used software in cars to make diesel-powered engines appear to have lower levels of emissions than they actually did. The company halted U.S. sales of some diesel-powered cars.

Also read: Volkswagen halts U.S. sales of certain diesel cars.

Earnest said it is ultimately the responsibility of the EPA to look at the issue, “and that’s exactly what they’re doing.”

Reaction from Congress was minimal — though that could change.

“VW should expect scrutiny from Congress, legal problems, a potential multibillion-dollar fine and a batch of uncomfortable headlines,” wrote Forbes contributor Micheline Maynard on Monday.

“If Volkswagen willfully sought to evade the Clean Air Act and fraudulently sold cars to millions of consumers with this technology, EPA should pursue the most severe action possible to deter others from doing the same,” Rep. Frank Pallone, a New Jersey Democrat, said on Friday.

“We must ensure that this does not happen again and that consumers can trust the products that they buy,” said Pallone, the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The panel’s oversight and investigations subcommittee held one of the several hearings into the General Motors GM, +0.00% ignition-switch recall in April 2014.

The allegations reportedly include Volkswagen Passats made at the company’s Chattanooga, Tenn., facility in 2014 and 2015. A Volkswagen spokesperson did not immediately return a request for comment.

MarketWatch reached out to members of Tennessee’s congressional delegation, but none offered any comment.

The 1,400-acre Chattanooga plant has more than 3,200 Volkswagen employees, the company says.

More from MarketWatch