WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — I’ve always loved Volkswagens, ever since my dad bought his first one in 1960.

In my youth, VW VOW, +3.29% built solid, affordable cars and did it with a sense of self-deprecating humor and offbeat style. VWs were literally the car of the people, the opposite of those big Detroit status symbols that screamed “I’ve made it — I’m better than you.”

By contrast, driving a VW Beetle or a van was a way of telling people that you’d dropped out of the race for status and acceptance. Your idea of “making it” wasn’t theirs. You didn’t care what they thought about your car or your bank account. VWs were ugly, cheap and beyond cool.

Five things on the VW emissions scandal (2:59)

Over the years, I’ve owned lots of different makes — a few Fords, some Dodges, a Jeep, a Subaru and even a couple of AMCs — but when my wife and I were looking for something in 2012 to replace our 2000 VW Passat, we wanted a new car that would deliver good performance and be environmentally responsible. We chose a VW Jetta TDI station wagon.

It’s been a wonderful car. It doesn’t pollute very much, it gets great mileage (45 mpg on our last road trip), it looks good, it has plenty of cargo room, and, with a six-speed manual transmission, it’s sporty enough to satisfy any need for a flashy mid-life crisis car. It’s definitely not a Prius, my generation’s Oldsmobile, the status symbol that screams “I’m better than you.”

And of course now we know that it was all a lie. It turns out that Volkswagen couldn’t make the car we wanted, a car that had performance, mileage and low emissions. The company lied to me and to millions of other buyers who wanted solid performance without ruining the environment.

Read: Volkswagen CEO steps down in wake of emissions scandal

The pious people driving the Priuses were right: They were better than we were; we just didn’t know it. Or does Prius lie to us too?

I’ve been covering the world of business for 20 years, so I’m not shocked when a major multinational corporation is caught cutting corners, lying, cheating and defrauding the very customers who’ve built their brand. Corporations aren’t warm and fuzzy creatures that need our love and forgiveness.

Still, this lie hurts. It always does when it’s your life and your money that have been stolen from you.

As a once-proud VW owner, what do I do? Get rid of the car? And buy what? If I can’t trust VW, can I trust Ford? Or Nissan? Or Tesla? Can I trust the Environmental Protection Agency to uncover the companies’ lies on the cars I’d choose between?

As city dwellers, we could almost do without a car except for the occasional weekend road trip. Fairly reliable public transportation is a short walk away; I ride the train to work every day. Washington offers plenty of choices for car sharing or bike sharing. My neighborhood is walkable. But my wife works in the suburbs, where a car is essential. She’s like most Americans: She absolutely has to have a car.

The dealer has offered to buy the car back from us at the price we could have gotten last week, before the fraud was revealed. That’s generous, but it doesn’t solve our problem.

Volkswagen hasn’t offered us anything yet. We don’t know how much we are polluting when we drive. We don’t know how much the mileage or performance will suffer when they reprogram the engine to pollute less.

We don’t know how much the car will be worth to us once it’s fixed. Will the car deliver on the promises VW made to us when we shelled out tens of thousands of dollars? We don’t know the answer, but we have a good guess: The Jetta isn’t the car we would have chosen if we’d known all the facts.

And what of Volkswagen, the underdog company that built a loyal customer base with excellent German engineering and by honestly marketing its cars as ugly and cheap? What does VW have if its engineering is lousy and its marketing isn’t honest?

I still remember my dad’s 1960 Beetle with fondness, but I don’t know how the company can overcome this disaster.

More from MarketWatch