For years, car makers and lobbyists have touted the benefits of “clean” diesel, a gasoline alternative that was able to coax higher fuel economy and better performance from the cars and light trucks it powered.

That effort has now been severely undermined by the news that one of diesel’s mightiest proponents, Germany’s Volkswagen AG XE:VOW US:VLKAY used a sophisticated software to cheat on emissions standards.

The ruse shocked investors and Volkswagen fans, shaved billions of dollars off VW’s market capitalization, cost the CEO his job — and it may set diesel technology back years. Supporters of the fuel have rushed to defend diesel, while others are wondering if the scandal will deal a deathly blow to the fuel and its green image.

Volkswagen, which could be on the hook for up to $18 billion in U.S. civil penalties plus fines and other costs, admitted it installed the cheating software in 11 million engines worldwide, and has set aside 6.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) as a third-quarter provision just to cover the costs of servicing the cars affected.

See also: VW scandal more proof something is rotten in European corporations

The collateral damage for the car industry and “clean” diesel is threefold, analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients Thursday. It will bring more scrutiny to the world’s diesel fleet, it could push regulators to enact tighter pollutant rules and controls, and it will increase the risk that consumers will be turned off diesel for years.

Read more: Volkswagen emissions scandal could be just the beginning, Wall Street says

Diesel has been a tougher sell in the U.S. than in Europe, with diesel-powered cars making up less than 3% of the U.S. fleet, said Jack Nerad, an analyst with Kelley Blue Book.

That compares to 53% of the fleet in Europe, up from 22% in the late 1990s, when governments upped efforts to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, according to figures cited by Goldman Sachs. Gasoline emits 147 grams of CO2 per kilometer, while diesel takes it down to 132 g/km, Goldman said.

For years, U.S. car buyers eschewed diesel due to the lack of infrastructure for the fuel, the competition with cheaper U.S. gasoline, and U.S. consumers reluctance to put up with some of the drawbacks of the diesel engine of yesteryear, such as engines that vibrated more and were noisier, Nerad said.

Modern diesel cars are more expensive than gasoline ones — diesel engines are more expensive to make. The appeal of current diesel cars came mostly from their fuel economy and power.

See also: Volkswagen lied to me when I bought my Jetta

As public scrutiny has intensified in the wake of the scandal, “we believe that risk exists that recent events precipitate a more rapid shift away from diesel,” Goldman Sachs analysts said.

Kelley Blue Book’s Nerad believes the scandal will be contained to Volkswagen. “I’d hate to believe others would have resorted to this type of thing,” he said. “This went well beyond an honest mistake, this was deception.”

Don’t miss: BMW shares skid on report of higher-than-allowed emissions

Read also: Volkswagen not first to be accused of using software to fool environment regulators

The Diesel Technology Forum said in a recent statement that nothing has changed the fact that the diesel engine is the most energy efficient combustion engine.

“We are also confident that consumers will continue to find the new generation of clean diesel cars, trucks and SUVs as a competitive choice to meet their personal transportation needs.”

But diesel’s already slim U.S. sales will likely take a dip, even if some diesel enthusiasts remain loyal to the engine type, Nerad said.

Volkswagen dominated the U.S. market, and several people were also loyal to the brand, he said. With Volkswagen out of the equation, other makers such as General Motors Co. US:GM which offers a diesel Chevy Cruze, could attract some aficionados, but there aren’t many options out there currently for U.S. drivers intent on diesel, Nerad said.

“It was a niche that Volkswagen essentially owned.”

More from MarketWatch