The company said on Sunday that it had launched an investigation.



In a statement published by the carmaker on Sunday, Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said, "I personally am deeply sorry that we have broken the trust of our customers.

"Volkswagen has ordered an external investigation of this matter," he said.

Shares in Volkswagen were down 18.6 percent, at Europe's close.

German authorities are set to probe Volkswagen for similar emissions manipulation in Germany, according to Dow Jones.

Volkswagen must now work closely with U.S. authorities, the German Transport Ministry spokesperson told newswires, adding that they expect the company to deliver reliable information.

Meanwhile, Vice Chancellor and Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel told Reuters he was concerned about the "excellent" reputation of German carmakers, saying Volkswagen's emissions manipulation was a "bad incident," according to Reuters. Gabriel also called on the company to fully clear up the egregious claims.



VW could face civil penalties of $37,500 for each vehicle not in compliance with federal clean air rules. Some 482,000 four-cylinder VW and Audi diesel cars sold since 2008 are involved in the allegations.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) said on Friday the software deceived regulators measuring toxic emissions, adding that Volkswagen could face fines of up to $18 billion as a result.

Volkswagen is currently listed on both the European and global Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), and was earlier this month deemed the most sustainable automaker among its indexed peers.

In a September 11 press release, Winterkorn said the award was evidence that the group was on its way to being the "world's most sustainable automaker."

A spokesperson for RobecoSAM, a sustainable investments firm which puts together the DJSI along with S&P Dow Jones Indices, told CNBC Volkswagen's situation was being "closely monitored."

"Should the DJSI Index Committee come to the conclusion that Volkswagen AG is not eligible anymore for the DJSI, all market participants will be informed simultaneously," RobecoSAM's spokesperson explained in an email.

