Time for your daily dose of trending tickers, the stocks you're following based on your Yahoo Finance ticker searches.

Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Stifel Nicolaus’ Washington Crossing Advisors, is not optimistic about how the third quarter’s final numbers will look when they are tallied. And he isn't too positive for the rest of this and next year, either.

Markets will disappoint until the end of 2016: Portfolio manager

The best-performing sector in the past year is about to face headwinds in the near term relative to the rest of the market, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

The market's hottest sector is about to face trouble: Technician

McDonald's recently launched its all-day breakfast menu and it has been getting customers in the door, according to the numbers crunchers at Foursquare.

Love it or hate it, McDonald's is seeing more customers with all-day breakfast

How will two popular athletic apparel companies performed during the third quarter?

Only a few years makes a big difference when it comes to saving for retirement, according to the 2015 Wells Fargo Retirement Study

As Google’s holding company Alphabet prepares to report its most-recent quarterly earnings, the stock’s chart appears ready to break out, according to one leading technical analyst.

Alphabet (GOOGL) is about to break out higher: Technician

Time for your daily dose of trending tickers, the stocks you're following based on your Yahoo Finance ticker searches.

Ahead of the company’s earnings, shares of Procter & Gamble (PG) are approaching a major technical resistance level that could signal a change in the stock’s long-term direction, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

Yahoo Finance's Midday Movers is live each weekday at 12pm ET, covering all the latest news on the markets, the economy and the biggest stories of the day.

U.S. stocks (^DJI, ^GSPC, ^IXIC) are struggling to find gains midday today.

Get the Latest Market Data and News with the Yahoo Finance App

Here are some of the other stories that Yahoo Finance is keeping an eye on today:

Tech mega-merger

Dell and private equity firms Silver Lake and MSD partners are buying data storage firm EMC for about $67 billion in cash and stock. This marks the largest tech deal on record.

Apple disables news app in China

Apple has reportedly disabled its news app in China. Users who have registered their phones in the U.S. can see the app's content when they travel overseas, except in China. Customers visiting China get a message saying that "news isn't supported in your current region."

The high cost of free returns

Free shipping for online shopping is now expected, but how about on the way back? The National Retail Federation details in a new report that 49% of retailers now offer free return shipping. The NRF expected this trend to ‘significantly increase’ over the next year.

Condo owners to Trump: You're Fired!

Condo owners in Panama City, Panama have a message for the Donald - You’re Fired! The AP reports amidst mismanagement, and possible self-dealing, condo board members in the Trump Ocean Club International Hotel and Tower have removed The Trump Organization’s management of the building.

Steven Tyler: Trump cannot use 'Dream On' at rallies

The Donald is hot water with another group - Aerosmith. Frontman Steven Tyler is demanding Trump stop using the song ‘Dream On’ during rallies.