Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella (Photo: Stephen Lam, Getty Images)

SAN FRANCISCO — Microsoft will invest $75 million over the next three years in initiatives to increase access to computer science education for youth.

Microsoft's Satya Nadella made the announcement during his keynote speech at Dreamforce, Salesforce's annual gathering in San Francisco for its customers and partners.

This marks a major expansion of Microsoft's YouthSpark program, the company's effort to get young people hooked on computer science and build a larger, more diverse talent pool for the technology industry.

The shortage of computer science graduates is one of the most pressing issues facing the industry, as is the underrepresentation of women and minorities.

With the new investment, nonprofit organizations around the world will receive donations and resources from Microsoft. And Microsoft will expand its outreach into high schools through TEALS, which stands for Technology Education and Literacy in Schools. The program pairs engineers from Microsoft and other high-tech companies with teachers to team-teach computer science in high schools.

Kevin Wang, a Microsoft engineer with a master's degree in education from Harvard, proposed the idea in 2009 after volunteering as a computer science teacher at a Seattle public high school. Nadella championed the idea of connecting students with the technology they use every day.

TEALS is aiming to be in 700 high schools in the next three years and in 4,000 over the next decade, focusing on urban and rural districts to reach more young women and minorities, Microsoft executives told USA TODAY.

Microsoft's investment "really speaks to what we collectively as an industry, as a country and as a society need to do," Nadella said in an interview.

Microsoft's announcement is part of a growing wave of support for computer science education in the nation's K-12 schools. Major tech companies from Google to Facebook are contributing money and resources to give kids the skills they need to work in the fast-growing and high-paying tech industry. And cities are also placing a new priority on computer science.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced this week a plan to have all the city's public schools teaching computer science within 10 years. Currently fewer than 10% of city schools offer computer science and 1% of students are learning it.

Two other cities have made similar pledges. Chicago says it plans to make computer science a high school graduation requirement and will offer computer science to at least a quarter of elementary school students by 2018. The San Francisco Board of Education voted in June to phase in computer science from preschool through high school.

One of the biggest hurdles to expanding computer science education in the schools: training more teachers. Those who study computer science frequently take more lucrative industry jobs. Microsoft's TEALS program helps prepare teachers to eventually run the course themselves, says Microsoft President Brad Smith.

"The impetus for what we are doing today and what we have been working on for the last couple of years is clearly there is a problem in our industry and a problem in the country. We don't have enough people in the country with the skills to fill the jobs that our industry is going to create. Even more than that, we are not creating opportunities for everyone across the country. We see that most notably in the shortage of African Americans, Latinos, girls and women entering the tech sector," Smith said in an interview.

Smith says the expansion of the TEALS program reflects "a very intentional decision on our part to double down" on schools in rural and urban areas "because those are the schools we need to reach to expand our focus on diversity."

Creating excitement among young people in the possibilities of computer science will also help Microsoft keep its commitment to addressing the racial and gender gap inside its own walls, Smith says.

Microsoft, like other major technology companies, is wrestling with gender imbalance. At Microsoft, 72% of the employees, 83% of the technical workers and 83% of the leadership are men.

The company was hit with a gender discrimination lawsuit on Wednesday. A former employee is alleging female technical workers at Microsoft are paid less and promoted less frequently than men and that their performance was ranked below that of men.

African Americans and Hispanics are also underrepresented at Microsoft: 5.2% of the work force is Hispanic and 3.4% is African American. The percentages dip among technical workers and leadership.

Smith says Microsoft is making strides in recruiting and promoting women and minorities and fostering a more inclusive work culture but concedes the company has a long path ahead.

"We know our success as a company over the next decade will turn on increasing the number of women and minorities in our ranks," Smith said.

He credits Nadella with reinforcing the point that Microsoft "cannot service the people of the world if we don't have an employee population that reflects the population of the world."

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1KhfoyP