Time for your daily dose of trending tickers, the stocks you're following based on your Yahoo Finance ticker searches.

Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Stifel Nicolaus’ Washington Crossing Advisors, is not optimistic about how the third quarter’s final numbers will look when they are tallied. And he isn't too positive for the rest of this and next year, either.

The best-performing sector in the past year is about to face headwinds in the near term relative to the rest of the market, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

McDonald's recently launched its all-day breakfast menu and it has been getting customers in the door, according to the numbers crunchers at Foursquare.

Love it or hate it, McDonald's is seeing more customers with all-day breakfast

How will two popular athletic apparel companies performed during the third quarter?

Only a few years makes a big difference when it comes to saving for retirement, according to the 2015 Wells Fargo Retirement Study

As Google’s holding company Alphabet prepares to report its most-recent quarterly earnings, the stock’s chart appears ready to break out, according to one leading technical analyst.

Time for your daily dose of trending tickers, the stocks you're following based on your Yahoo Finance ticker searches.

Ahead of the company’s earnings, shares of Procter & Gamble (PG) are approaching a major technical resistance level that could signal a change in the stock’s long-term direction, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

Though Apple has been poaching engineers from Tesla for its own electric car project, Tesla CEO Elon Musk insists the newly scooped up employees are actually Tesla rejects.

Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk doesn't think very much of Apple's reported plan to build an electric car, he revealed in an interview with the German newspaper Handelsblatt.

When asked about the fact Apple kept hiring Tesla engineers, Musk didn't bother to spare anyone's feelings:

"They have hired people we've fired," Musk said. "We always jokingly call Apple the 'Tesla Graveyard.' If you don't make it at Tesla, you go work at Apple. I'm not kidding."

On the concept of Apple building a car at all, he agreed it was "the next logical thing" for the iPhone giant. But he didn't seem to take Apple's plans too seriously as a threat to Tesla.

"Did you ever take a look at the Apple Watch?" Musk said. "No, seriously: It's good that Apple is moving and investing in this direction. But cars are very complex compared to phones or smartwatches."

It's a bit of a departure for Musk. In 2014, Musk confirmed that the two companies were in possible acquisition talks, but nothing came of it.

And just this past May, Musk said it would be "great" if Apple entered the car business. But at that same presentation, Musk also said no Tesla engineers were leaving for Apple. The fact Tesla has started to lose employees to Apple could explain why Musk has changed his tune.

Meanwhile, given that Apple is the most valuable company in the world, and hiring engineers and robotics experts like crazy to further its automotive dreams, Musk could end up eating his words.

NOW WATCH: We took Tesla's brand new Model X for a test drive





More From Business Insider