Move over PC. The iPad Pro is here. When Apple, Inc. (AAPL) CEO Tim Cook unveiled the iPad Pro, he said the device was Apple's “clearest expression of the future of personal computing.” The device's specs certainly seem to bear out Cook's claim. With a screen size of 12.9 inches, a keyboard and a pressure sensitive stylus (in lieu of a mouse or trackpad), the iPad Pro is fairly similar to the PC.

Given blockbuster sales numbers for iPhone sales, Apple's focus on the tablet market is surprising. In its product launches, the Cupertino-based company has released successive versions of the iPad in recent times. But, the spotlight has always been firmly focused on its blockbuster product – the iPhone. This year, however, the iPad Pro grabbed that place. So, what happened to change Apple's mind?

There are two broad reasons why Apple is betting on tablets.

A New Market

In many ways, the tablet market, which had been moribund for some time now, is a brand new market. After shooting off the blocks in 2007 (when Apple introduced the first iPad), the market for tablets has largely stagnated despite the introduction of new categories and products by major players. 2015 has been a particularly bad year for tablet sales. In the first quarter of this year, tablet sales declined by 5.9% and, subsequently, went down by 7% as compared to previous year figures. According to an analyst from research firm IDC, there were a couple of reasons for the sales decline. First, tablets have longer life cycles per device compared to smart phones. Second, they faced increased competition from larger smartphones (also known as phablets), which ate into their market share. The competition is especially fierce in China, the biggest market for phablets, which boasted 17 vendors in the smartphone market. While reporting another blowout quarter in January, Apple CEO Tim Cook said China was pivotal for the company's future profits. Third, users could upgrade their software on older devices. Without noticeable improvements in hardware performance over successive generation of tablets, there did not seem to be much reason for users to invest in another hardware device.

By introducing a brand new version of the iPad, Apple is hoping to revive the market. In doing so, it is following its competitors in the tech industry – Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) and Alphabet, Inc. (home of Google) (GOOG), who have introduced new tablets of their own. The latest iPad Pro is intended to carve out a new market, separate from iPhones and other tablets.

More Applications

Although it was introduced as a device to consume content, use cases for tablets have expanded. For example, the device is already making substantial inroads into the educational and business markets. Apple has inked deals with school districts and technology giants like IBM Corp. (IBM) for iPads in classrooms and offices. In addition, the company is betting that its design chops will appeal to artists and creators. That is the reason why it has inserted a stylus into its latest iPad.

But these are simply the immediate applications for the iPad. Given its size and mobility, the device could easily become the next big thing for emerging technology. In a precursor of things to come, Apple acquired Prime Sense, a 3D scanning technology company two years ago. Startups have already begun developing peripherals and devices that take advantage of the technology to work with the iPad. Similarly, Google's Project Tango – a smartphone that uses 3D scanning technology to map surroundings – also uses Apple's 3D scanning technology. As the ecosystem for 3D scanning, the iPad’s applications will expand across sectors. For example, 3D scanning technology can be used in tandem with 3D printing technology to craft custom molds. Or, it could be used for virtual tours.

The Bottom Line

As a device, the iPad has evolved beyond its original use cases. With the entry of competing players (such as Google and Microsoft), the tablet market has also matured. Until recently, Apple had not innovated significantly on its original idea for the iPad. The latest versions of the device are the company's attempts to play catch up and, also, revive the market with its heft and scale.