The Apple Watch represents not only the tech giant's latest offering. It's also the first effort by Apple, famed for so many innovative products, to penetrate a time-honored territory: the luxury watch market, dominated by centuries-old names like Cartier, Rolex and Patek Philippe. (See The Battle Between Apple Watch & Luxury Watches). Ranging from $10K to $17K, Apple's Edition watch line offers the most expensive consumer products in the company's history. But as a luxury item, can it stand the test of time against a classic mechanical timepiece?

Tech vs. Craft

We buy technology for now, but expect luxury investments to last a lifetime. The Apple iWatch might be able to hail a cab, track your heartbeat and order the groceries, but extra features count for surprisingly little in the way the luxury watch world assesses long-term value (see Best Luxury Men's Watches to Add to Your Collection). Much of the worth wound up in a traditional mechanical timepiece is the hands-on human element required to craft it. Apple watches, in contrast, are manufactured in China (all of them) – with very little hand assembly, so the value is in the tech. Or is it? The software featured in the 18-karat-gold Watch Edition, the top-of-the-line $17K offering, is identical to that of Apple's entry-level $399 Watch Sport model, which means luxury consumers are really just paying for gold encasing, and the status that comes with it.

A luxury handcrafted watch is a treasure, often acquired to mark milestones or to be passed down through generations – something that may not be possible with Apple smart watches, should software developments render them obsolete. Typically, when a new generation of Apple products surfaces, the previous version immediately drops in value. Whip out an iPhone 4G today, and you’ll be deemed a tech dinosaur, with a product you can barely trade in for a upgrade. In contrast, a Cartier Santos 100 XL Automatic in 18-karat rose gold from 2010 (the year the 4G debuted) has an asking price of $13,500. If other Apple products are anything to go by, a few years may see the first editions of "iWatches" relegated to the bottom drawer… along with yesterday’s iPod.

Consumers must also be prepared for inevitable tech glitches, hiccups and refinements that come with early-generation software. Previously, with Watch OS1, all apps had to run through an iPhone, limiting their capabilities and causing many users to complain about slowness and lack of functionality. Watch owners were undoubtedly eager to upgrade to the long-awaited OS2 with its app-friendlier capabilities and new features, yet a critical bug delayed its release until September 2015. Meanwhile, traditional timepieces run like… clockwork.

Brand Clout

Labels matter in the watch world. Compared to other established luxury brands, the Apple watch has virtually no history in the marketplace. By contrast, prestigious makers such as Patek Philippe and Rolex have been entrenched in the industry for more than a century, cultivating huge legacies in the process. The performance and innovation of Apple's products is revered as one of history’s – and the computer industry's – greatest; however, its legendary tech rep doesn’t necessarily cross over into the luxury accessories realm.

Collector’s Potential

If you’re thinking of a luxury watch as a long-term investment, the fast pace of digital innovations means the Apple Watch could become obsolete within a generation. It is, after all, an electronic device, so it’s possible (or highly likely) that outdated software will make it redundant, unlike any mechanical timepiece.

On the other hand, as tech and fashion become more intertwined, Apple may indeed be paving the way for a new wearable product. TAG Heuer has already partnered with Google to create a smartwatch; and musician will.i.am. has teamed up with Gucci on a line of smart timepieces, so perhaps we’ll see a happy hybrid of “tech meets traditional luxury.”

And a collectors’ market may well emerge around the smart watch. Apple's watches are being released in limited quantities for exclusivity’s sake (a tactic that has worked wonders in making Rolexes highly collectible). The Twittersphere has suggested Apple’s gold Watch Edition will likely be upgradeable, or that Apple will set up some kind of trade-in scheme.

The Bottom Line

So which makes the best five-figure investment sense: an Apple watch or a Rolex? Trendy status appeal or heirloom appeal?

For now, Apple essentially owns the new “luxury smartwatch” market segment, and it never hurts to get in on the ground floor of any prestige product. On the other hand, although Apple's products hold their value better than most other mobile devices, spending thousands on an early-generation model that will eventually be filled with old technology is risky. If you've got that amount of cash to spend, you could splurge on a Rolex Deepsea Sea-Dweller (listed at $12,350), a Calibre de Cartier Chronograph ($11,300) or the Omega Speedmaster Moonwatch ($12,000) – none of which will require software updates to keep ticking.