Earnings season for the third quarter of the calendar year has kicked off, and 24/7 Wall St. has put together a preview of some of the Dow Jones Industrial Average companies that are reporting their quarterly results this week. We included the consensus earnings estimates from Thomson Reuters and the stock price and trading history, as well as added some additional color on each.

We have excluded JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs from this preview, as they are included in our major bank earnings previews for week ahead.

Be advised that the earnings and revenue estimates may change ahead of the formal reports, and some companies may change reporting dates as well.

Johnson & Johnson

Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ) is scheduled to reveal its third-quarter results on Tuesday. The consensus estimates call for $1.45 in earnings per share (EPS), as well as $17.48 billion in revenue. This company has one of the most exciting pipelines of new drugs in the sector. That, combined with the solid over-the-counter product business, makes the stock an outstanding holding. With branded pharmaceuticals leading the sales growth for the company, investors received a mildly bullish report when the company reported second-quarter numbers. U.S. consumer health sales rose nearly 3%, versus a 9% decline in total revenue. That and other factors helped the company just squeak by Wall Street estimates.

Shares were trading at $95.37 on Friday’s close. The consensus price target is $109.52. The stock has a 52-week trading range of $81.79 to $109.49.

ALSO READ: 8 Fresh Analyst Stock Picks With 50% to 100% Upside

Intel

Intel Corp. (NASDAQ: INTC) is set to report its third-quarter results on Wednesday. The analysts’ consensus estimates call for EPS of $0.59 and $14.24 billion in revenue. This top chip company has been in the doghouse on Wall Street all year, though the most recent very positive earnings report certainly helped to lift the pall hanging over the company. Intel is among the companies regarded as having among the highest shareholders cash returns, at approximately 8%, but it has lagged high-growth specialty chip stocks. The iconic chip giant had a stellar 2014 on the tailwind from continued personal computer sales, but this year has been a far different story. Despite that very positive second-quarter earnings report, the stock is down 8.3% year to date.

Shares were changing hands at $32.14 on Friday’s close. The consensus price target is $33.79, and the stock has a 52-week trading range of $24.87 to $37.90.

UnitedHealth

UnitedHealth Group Inc. (NYSE: UNH) is expected to share its latest quarterly earnings on Thursday. The consensus estimates call for EPS of $1.64 and $40.18 billion in revenue. This is a top stock to buy in the rapidly consolidating managed health sector. UnitedHealth offers the full spectrum of health benefit programs for individuals, employers and Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and it contracts directly with more than 800,000 physicians and care professionals, and 6,000 hospitals and other care facilities.

Shares closed at $119.27 on Friday, in a 52-week trading range of $80.72 to $126.21. The stock has a consensus analyst price target of $146.45.

ALSO READ: Big Insider Buying Continues in Sprint, Lands’ End, Sears and More

GE

Look for General Electric Co. (NYSE: GE) to report its third-quarter results on Friday. The analysts’ consensus estimates call for EPS of $0.26 and $28.69 billion in revenue. This blue chip industrial has lagged the market for years, but Norman Peltz’s Trian Partners fund recently made a huge $2.5 billion investment, and that sent shares higher. GE is a highly diversified, global industrial corporation. The company’s products and services include power generation equipment, aircraft engines, locomotives, medical equipment, appliances, commercial leasing and personal finance. The Merrill Lynch analysts also feel that the American giant will be a large player in the efficient energy field.

Shares of GE were changing hands at $28.07 as last week’s trading came to a close. The consensus price target is $29.62, and the stock has a 52-week trading range of $19.37 to $28.68.