For Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), iPhone 6S sounds like success. The Cupertino, Calif.-based company announced Monday that it sold more than 13 million iPhone 6S and 6S Plus models in their first three days of retail availability. That beats the previous record of 10 million units, set last year during the opening weekend of iPhone 6 sales.

"Sales for iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus have been phenomenal, blowing past any previous first weekend sales results in Apple's history," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement. "Customers' feedback is incredible and they are loving 3D Touch and Live Photos, and we can't wait to bring iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus to customers in even more countries on Oct. 9."

Apple beat Wall Street's sales target of 12 million iPhone 6S units for the opening weekend, FBR analyst Daniel Ives said in a research report Monday. Ives rates Apple stock outperform.

This Apple store in downtown Chicago had a line early Friday. View Enlarged Image

"We view 13 million as a 'bull case' number from the weekend as bears were saying 10.5 million to 11 million was possible, and this was up significantly from the 10 million units sold in the iPhone 6 first launch weekend," Ives said.

The comparison to last year's iPhone sales, however, is not apples-to-apples, Ives said. China alone likely added 2 million to 2.5 million units to the launch total this year, he said.

Apple launched the iPhone 6S on Friday in 12 countries, compared with 10 for the iPhone 6. The big addition this year was China. The other launch countries were Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, the U.K. and the U.S.

Investors appeared unimpressed with Apple's iPhone 6S sales figure. Apple stock was down 1%, near 113, in morning trading on the stock market today, though the major indexes were all down more than 1% or nearly 1%.

40 More Countries Soon

Apple will roll out the new iPhones to more than 40 additional countries and territories on Oct. 9 and 10, including Italy, Mexico, Russia and Spain. It will add India, Malaysia and Turkey on Oct. 16, bringing its total to 57 markets.

Apple expects to be selling the iPhone 6S series in over 130 counties by year-end.

The iPhone 6S series phones feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster processor, improved cameras and the Live Photos feature, which adds motion to still pictures. The phones come in four colors (silver, gold, space gray and rose gold) and three data-storage configurations (16 gigabytes, 64 GB and 128 GB).