All eyes are on China as President Xi Jinping continues his U.S. visit. This week's IBD 50 roundup offers several top-rated stocks with exposure, in some form or another, to the world's No. 2 economy.

Nike

The sportswear giant crushed Q1 estimates late Thursday with a 23% earnings rise to $1.34 a share and 5% sales growth to $8.4 billion. Despite the recent slowdown in China, Nike (NYSE:NKE) reported a solid sales gain there: excluding currency changes, sales in greater China leapt 30%.

Elsewhere, Nike's North America sales grew 9%, Western Europe sales rose 14%, Japan surged 35%, and Central and Eastern Europe jumped 26%. Other emerging markets saw a 19% gain.

Nike shares gapped up 8.9% Friday and cleared a 117.82 buy point from a consolidation as several analysts bumped up their price targets on the company.

CyberArk

CyberArk Software (NASDAQ:CYBR) and other cybersecurity firms have received increased interest as cyberattacks, including many from China, become increasingly common on both businesses and federal agencies.

The issue has put a strain on relations between the U.S. and China.

On Friday, the nations agreed that "neither country's government will conduct or knowingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property, including trade secrets or other confidential business information, with the intent of providing competitive advantages to companies or commercial sectors," according to a White House statement.

CyberArk shares closed down 4.9%. Nomura said Friday that CyberArk's 34% stock sell-off since June provides an attractive entry point, rating it a buy and boosting its price target to 62 from 57.

Other cybersecurity stocks, including Qualys (NASDAQ:QLYS) and FireEye (NASDAQ:FEYE), dropped Friday as well.

Avago

Also on Friday, the latest Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhones hit store shelves in 12 countries, including the U.S. and China. Singapore-based Avago Technologies (NASDAQ:AVGO) is a major chip supplier to Apple, which manufactures its gadgets in China.

Avago shares have been weaving around their 50-day line, finding support again Friday as Apple's iPhone 6S and 6S Plus debuted. The company has delivered triple-digit earnings and revenue gains in three out of its last four quarters.

Skyworks Solutions (NASDAQ:SWKS) and Qorvo (NASDAQ:QRVO) chips are also found in the new iPhone models.

Starbucks

The coffee giant said in March that it had inked a deal with Tingyi Holding to manufacture and expand distribution of the green mermaid's ready-to-drink beverages in mainland China.

The country is a huge growth market for Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX). Its China/Asia-Pacific segment revenue spiked 127% to $652.7 million in Q3, while comps rose 11% during the quarter.

For the fiscal year, Starbucks remains on target to open 850 net new stores in the region, two-thirds of which will be licensed. The China/Asia-Pacific segment's operating margins are expected to be "slightly over 20%" for the year, according to the company.

RELATED:

Apple iPhone 6S Teardown: Skyworks, Avago Still In

CyberArk In 'Early Days' Of Market Grab: Analyst.