The impact of Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone Upgrade Program was a topic of debate Thursday as two Wall Street analysts aired contrasting views on the subject.

Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster said Apple's installment billing plan, which lets customers get a new iPhone every year, will lead to faster iPhone upgrades and provide a "meaningful tailwind" to iPhone sales for the next four-plus years.

Meanwhile, Mizuho Securities analyst Abhey Lamba said he doesn't believe many consumers will sign up for the Apple iPhone Upgrade Program.

Munster Sees Upside

The iPhone Upgrade Program and similar plans from wireless carriers could provide upside to Apple's share value. The significance of the trend is not currently reflected in the stock price, Munster said in a report Thursday.

"We believe this trend should add between 5-7% to Street iPhone units in each of the next four-plus years (4-6% to overall revenue)," Munster said. "In the U.S., the installment/annual upgrades will likely push the U.S. upgrade cycle to an average of 15 months from the current 22 months by calendar year 2018."

Munster assumes that 75% of U.S. iPhone consumers will become annual upgraders by the end of 2018, from about 10% today.

Munster rates Apple stock as overweight with a price target of 172. Apple stock was down more than 1%, near 109.50, in afternoon trading on the stock market today.

Lamba Sees Little Impact

Mizuho's Lamba thinks iPhone upgrades will remain at every two years despite the new installment plans.

"Our conversations with various iPhone users indicate that upgrade cycles are likely remaining around two years with very few users taking up Apple's upgrade plan," Lamba said in a report Thursday.

He rates Apple stock as neutral with a price target of 125.

His supply chain checks indicate that Apple has a sufficient supply of new iPhone 6S handsets for sale. "Phones are available in the stores, which is relatively rare for an iPhone cycle at this early in its cycle," Lamba said.

The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus debuted at retail on Sept. 25 in 12 markets, including the U.S. and China. On Friday, the ninth-generation iPhones will be available in more than 40 additional countries including Italy, Mexico, Russia and Spain. Apple plans to have the iPhone 6S phones for sale in over 130 countries by the end of the year.

"December quarter shipments will likely be constrained by demand not supply of iPhones," Lamba said.

RELATED:

Apple December quarter guidance likely to disappoint.