Under Armour (NYSE:UA) still a distant second to Nike in sportswear revenue, but the Baltimore-based challenger is looking to unseat the champion through an off-court battleground: by becoming the Facebook of fitness.

"We all know that Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) equals social, biggest on the planet. That LinkedIn (NYSE:LNKD) equals business. We will be the destination for health and fitness," said Under Armour (NYSE:UA) CEO Kevin Plank at the company's recent investor day. "We will connect the dots. We will connect the sensors all into one place. That is our vision."

Plank's strategy hinges on the belief that every product "eventually is going to have a chip in it." And he's backing that up with manpower: the company's digital team is expected to exceed 500 people in 2016, up from 60 in 2013.

His dream — embodied in an initiative called "Connected Fitness" — started to take shape this year with the acquisitions of MyFitnessPal and Endomondo. The moves beefed up Under Armour's existing app suite, which included MapMyFitness (a 2013 buy) and UA Record, and expanded its reach to tens of millions more fitness enthusiasts.

Lessons From Amazon

With its apps, the company wants to know everything about its users — "what you put in your body, how well you slept, how far you ran, how far you usually run" — to make recommendations and sell more products.

The approach borrows from leaders in the tech space. Under Armour said that Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) attributes 40% of its revenue to recommendations the e-commerce giant makes to its customers based on their search histories and previous purchases.

Whether the app-derived data lead to more sales and the dethroning of Nike (NYSE:NKE) remains to be seen, but Under Armour already has the lead in one regard. Its four apps boast a total user base of 150 million, of which 60 million are active users, said Plank.

Nike, on the other hand, has mostly kept mum on its digital initiatives.

The company said in August of last year that there were more than 30 million members of Nike+ — what it calls its suite of digital products and services — but most analysts can only guess at the current number.

Macquarie analyst Laurent Vasilescu told IBD that he "would not be surprised" if that total figure had grown to 40 million to 50 million by now, a projection that is, at best, still 10 million shy of Under Armour's current active user base.