Volkswagen (OTCPK:VLKAY) said ahead of a congressional hearing Thursday that it hopes to start a massive recall in January after revelations that it cheated on emissions tests for nitrogen oxides on some diesel models.

The German auto giant has said that up to 11 million diesel-powered vehicles worldwide across several brands had software to cheat on U.S. tests. On the road, NOx (nitrogen oxide) emissions — a big part of smog — were far above the legal limit.

Volkswagen (OTCPK:VLKAY) CEO Matthias Mueller told the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, "If all goes as planned, we can start the recall in January." All cars should be updated with new software by the end of 2016, he added.

Diesel Volkswagens sit behind a security fence on a storage lot near a VW dealership in Salt Lake City. AP View Enlarged Image

On Sept. 25, Volkswagen named Mueller, former CEO of VW's Porsche luxury sports-car brand, as CEO. He replaced Martin Winterkorn, who stepped down as CEO on Sept. 23.

No Love For The Bug

Meanwhile, a House Energy subcommittee will hear testimony from VW on Thursday.

Volkswagen Group of America President and CEO Michael Horn and representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is charged with monitoring auto emissions, are both scheduled to appear.

EPA officials said in written testimony submitted to the committee on Wednesday that they cannot divulge new details about the agency's probe of Volkswagen without jeopardizing their investigation.

The EPA added that Volkswagen concealed information about its rigged diesel-emissions software until after it was discovered, Reuters reported.

VW has tried to make a big push into the U.S. as it seeks to be the world's No. 1 automaker, ahead of Toyota Motor (NYSE:TM) and General Motors (NYSE:GM). Its quest for that title looks like it will end up backfiring, just as it did for Toyota and GM.

VW Stock Up, But Still Down

VW stock rose 8.9% to 26.60 on Wednesday. It fell 28% from a 2015 high set on March 17 to 38.03 on Sept. 17. After the emissions rigging was revealed, the decline accelerated. VW stock is at about half of March's level, even after Wednesday's rise.

VW also named CFO Hans Dieter Poetsch as chairman on Wednesday. Poetsch was nominated for the post in early September, before the emissions scandal broke.

On Sept. 25, the EPA announced that VW had admitted using altered software in its vehicles to cheat on U.S. diesel-emissions tests. That only covers 482,000 cars in the U.S., including the VW-owned Audi A3 and the VW brands Jetta, Beetle, Golf and Passat. But 11 million vehicles worldwide, including 8 million in Europe, have the "defeat device" software, VW has admitted.

German Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt said Wednesday that the government is mulling whether to demand more data from Volkswagen, which earlier submitted plans to fix the diesel engines, Reuters reported.