Tesla Motors (NASDAQ:TSLA) recently won a better-than-perfect Consumer Reports score for its Model S. But Tesla's stock is dead last among automakers — including General Motors (NYSE:GM), Volkswagen (OTCPK:VLKAY) and Fiat Chrysler (NYSE:FCAU) — on two key qualitative measures.

Institutions Sell Tesla Stock

Tesla had an D- Accumulation/Distribution Rating as of Wednesday's close. The A/D Rating measures net buying or selling by mutual funds and other big institutions in recent weeks. A D- A/D Rating is near the bottom of a scale that goes from A+ to a worst-possible E. Back on July 20, when Tesla broke out of a 10-month base, the stock had a B rating. But the breakout failed and big funds sold shares, especially in recent days. Wall Street has not been impressed with Tesla's high Model X price tag.

Why is institutional support important? For one, mutual funds and other big buyers have the heft to push a stock up or down. Without bulk buyers, a stock can't make a powerful advance. Also, while big money isn't always smart, the experts that run huge funds aren't exactly stupid either.

Update: Tesla stock fell 2.3% on Thursday, its third straight decline in above-average volume. Tesla's Accumulation/Distribution Rating fell to a worst-possible E.

Meanwhile, General Motors boasted a solid Accumulation/Distribution Rating of B on Wednesday, and kept the grade on Thursday as shares rose modestly in light volume

Volkswagen had a B- A/D Rating on Wednesday, then rose to a solid B on Thursday. That's right: Volkswagen, facing tens of billions of dollars in fines, lawsuits and lost sales for its diesel emissions scandal, enjoys more institutional support — very recently — than Tesla. Admittedly, this follows a 56% from March 17 to Oct. 2, when VW had a worst-possible A/D Rating of E. Funds may see the stock as cheap, or at least due for a short-term bounce.

Ford Motor (NYSE:F) had a B- A/D Rating on Wednesday and Thursday. Shares have been rising, but not on much volume.

Fiat Chrysler had an A/D Rating of C on Wednesday, which was actually an improvement in recent days despite concerns that the United Auto Workers would declare a strike at Wednesday midnight. Just after midnight, the UAW said it had reached a tentative deal with Fiat Chrysler, averting a crippling strike. Fiat Chrysler continued to rebound Thursday, though its A/D Rating remained at a C.

Nissan Motor (OTCPK:NSANY), which doesn't trade that much on U.S. over-the-counter markets, actually has the best A/D Rating at B+. The rating was unchanged Thursday after a low-volume stock gain.