A little over half of Apple Watch owners say they're "very satisfied" with the device, well below the satisfaction levels for Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) original iPhone.

In its first survey of Apple Watch owners, 451 Research found that 54% are "very satisfied" with Apple's first smartwatch, while 33% are "somewhat satisfied," 6% "somewhat unsatisfied" and 6% "very unsatisfied."

In 2007, ChangeWave Research, now owed by 451, surveyed users of the first iPhone and found that 77% were very satisfied, 15% somewhat satisfied, 5% unsatisfied and 2% uncertain.

Andy Golub, survey research director for 451 Research, said his firm's latest survey is positive for Apple Watch.

"The Apple Watch is off to a great start, with high marks in satisfaction and a strong likelihood of recommending it to others," Golub said in a statement Tuesday. "The wide range of features on the device and its frequent usage among owners pose a clear threat to health and fitness monitors and traditional watches."

According to the survey, conducted July 27 to Aug. 4, 28% of Apple Watch owners say their new smartwatch "exceeds" expectations and 51% say it "meets" expectations. The survey polled 145 Apple Watch owners.

When Apple Watch owners were asked whether they'd recommend the device to a friend or colleague, 55% said they would be "very likely" to do so, with 28% "somewhat likely."

The most-liked features of the Apple Watch are notifications (49%), followed by health and fitness monitoring (41%) and aesthetics and design (30%), 451 Research said. Respondents could choose up to three favorite features.

Key dislikes of the Apple Watch are short battery life (37%), reliance on the iPhone (31%) and lack of waterproofing (25%).

Nearly half (46%) of Apple Watch owners said they canceled or put on hold a planned purchase of a fitness tracking device because they now own an Apple Watch. And 16% of Apple Watch owners say they canceled or postponed a traditional watch purchase because of the Apple Watch, 451 Research said.

That could spell trouble for makers of fitness trackers like Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) and traditional watches like Fossil Group (NASDAQ:FOSL), Movado Group (NYSE:MOV) and the Swatch Group (OTCBB:SWGAY).

In July, research firm Wristly surveyed 800 Apple Watch owners who signed up to be part of its research panel. Asked about their overall satisfaction with the Apple Watch, 66% said they were "very satisfied," 31% "somewhat satisfied," 2% "neither satisfied nor dissatisfied" and 1% "somewhat dissatisfied."

RELATED:

Apple Watch looking pretty square vs. rival smartwatches.