Beyond Bar-B-Que and blues, Austin, Texas, has evolved into a distinctive tech center whose persona manifests as an idiosyncratic cousin to its counterparts in Silicon Valley, New York and Boston.

"I think the way Austin is set up is just unique," said the aptly named Gene Austin, CEO of social media services company Bazaarvoice (NASDAQ:BV). "It starts with confluence of technology, a big university and state government, with a dash of hippie.

"But it has that all-important tech community standpoint, with a bit of funkiness and fun."

Texas' capital city is growing fast, and not just its skyline, with technology jobs alone up 74% since 2004. View Enlarged Image

Austin's tech landscape is a mosaic whose ballast is made up of stalwart companies such as city-based Dell and Freescale Semiconductor (NYSE:FSL); home-grown IPO-backed digital firms like Bazaarvoice and HomeAway (NASDAQ:AWAY); and expanding immigrants such as Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN), PayPal (NASDAQ:PYPL), Dropbox and longtime presence IBM (NYSE:IBM).

The net result is clear — jobs and money.

A study from Praxis Strategy Group, published this May in Forbes, ranked Austin No. 1 in its tech-jobs growth rate. It had more than 53,000 employed in tech-related fields as of Jan. 1, up nearly 74% since 2004, said Praxis.

21% Of Gross Regional Product

A study this September by the Austin Technology Council, which counts 280 companies and their employees as members, said tech jobs in Austin were rising four times as quickly as the rest of the U.S. The ATC says technology accounts for 21% of the Gross Regional Product, with a direct contribution of $22.3 billion to Austin's GRP, up from $21 billion in 2014.

Central Texas is known for a vibrant startup culture. In 2014, RJMetrics named Austin one of the hottest startup cities in the U.S., citing an exceptional amount of "human capital." Such a data point is backed up by wannabe budget-minded digital nomad tech pioneers camped out at the numerous co-working spaces, incubators, and free Wi-Fi-powered coffeehouses. Austin is developing a reputation for being a popular launching pad for tech visionaries.

CB Insights ranks Austin No. 3 among cities for tech acquisitions, topped only by New York and San Francisco.

With these signs of prosperity, business leaders and entrepreneurs are holding their breath, hoping Austin isn't quickly growing beyond the size of its britches. Being named to a number of "best cities" lists has its drawbacks. Interstate-35 commuters will attest to notoriously bad traffic that continues to worsen, and real estate bidding wars have led to a shortage of affordable housing.