Lines outside Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) stores were considerably shorter for this year's iPhone launch compared with those from the last few years. The line at the Apple store in Reston, Va., had roughly 75 people less than 30 minutes before opening Friday. That's about a quarter the size of the line a year ago for the iPhone 6 launch.

Dakota Wolf, visiting from Phoenix, was near the front of the line for the iPhone 6S retail launch Friday. He summed up the lack of enthusiasm among customers.

"It's not that big of a change," he said of the iPhone 6S. "I don't know why I'm here frankly."

Early customers at Friday's launch of iPhone 6S sales were welcomed with fanfare by employees at Apple Stores, such as this one in Munich. View Enlarged Image

The iPhone 6S series phones feature a pressure-sensitive display, a faster processor, improved cameras and the Live Photos feature that adds motion to still pictures. The phones come in four colors (silver, gold, space gray and rose gold) and three data-storage configurations (16 gigabytes, 64 GB and 128 GB).

The improved cameras and 3D Touch display are the biggest selling points of the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus, according to a survey of 38 buyers in line at the Reston, Va., store.

Of those surveyed, 37% said the better cameras were the most-desired feature of the iPhone 6S series.

The iPhone 6S has a 12-megapixel rear camera, vs. 8 megapixels on last year's model. It shoots 4K ultra high-definition video for the first time. The phone has a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera that uses the Retina display as a flash for taking better selfies. Last year's iPhones had a 1.2 megapixel FaceTime camera.

The 3D Touch display was the second-most popular feature among those surveyed. Some 29% said it was the top reason for buying the iPhone 6S.

"It will bring a whole new level to how you interact with the phone," Henrique Cunha of Campinas, Brazil, told IBD. "I think that will be better explored with new apps."

He suspects the new display is a step toward removing the home button on future iPhone models. The new display senses how deeply you press it, providing shortcuts to apps and other functions.

The third-most desired feature of the iPhone 6S is the new rose gold finish. Some 21% of those surveyed said it was their main reason for buying the new handset.

Other selling points cited included the speedier A9 processor and greater durability with the 7000 series aluminum case.

Plus-Size More Popular

Of those lining up at the Reston, Va., store, most (87%) planned to buy the 5.5-inch iPhone 6S Plus, and the minority planned to get the 4.7-inch iPhone 6S.