"Wearalone" smartwatches could cannibalize 70% of the smartphone market within 15 years, Generator Technology said in a research report Monday. Generator predicts smartphone sales will peak in 2021 and start to decline. The U.K.-based research firm says "wearalone" smartwatches — wrist devices that don't need a smartphone to fully operate — will surpass smartphones in unit shipments around 2027.

"This is the inescapable conclusion if we extrapolate existing technological trends," Generator chief analyst Andrew Sheehy said in a blog post. "Remember that the modern smartphone market only started in 2003 and the iPhone and Android phones were launched in 2007 — just seven years ago."

And today's Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhones and Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Android smartphones are way more advanced than those early models, Sheehy said.

So, while the Apple Watch, launched in April, has had a modest reception to date, future models likely will make that first-generation device look primitive.

To start making those big inroads on smartphones, smartwatches must work fully on their own, Sheehy said. The current Apple Watch and Android Wear watches need to be tethered to a smartphone for fully functionality.

Smartwatches will need their own cellular antennas to connect to the Internet and not rely on a companion smartphone.

In the same way that Apple cannibalized its iPod business with the iPhone, it might do the same to its iPhone business with the Apple Watch.

Generator predicts worldwide smartphone shipments will rise to 1.88 billion in 2020 from 1.4 billion units this year. It sees smartphone shipments then falling to 1.59 billion units in 2025 and 666 million in 2030.

Meanwhile, "wearalone" smartwatch shipments are projected to rise from nothing today to 71 million units in 2020, Generator said. It sees wearalone smartwatch shipments soaring to 507 million in 2025 and 1.55 billion in 2030.

The only serious attempt at a wearalone smartwatch was Samsung's Tizen-based Gear S device, launched in September 2013. It includes a cellular modem and SIM card.

"It is very likely that Apple is at an advanced stage in formulating a plan for its own wearalone smartwatch," Sheehy said.

RELATED:

Sprint to sell Apple Watch in stores same day as iPhone 6S

Apple Watch satisfaction badly lags first iPhone.