The percentage of U.S. online households that don't pay for cable or satellite TV service rose to 18.3% in the third quarter from 14.1% a year ago and 10.9% two years ago, according to the latest survey by Robert W. Baird & Co.

The Baird study is further evidence of cord-cutters and cord-nevers. Cord-cutters are people who have canceled their pay-TV service. Cord-nevers are mostly millennials who have never signed up for pay-TV service and use streaming video alternatives like Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) instead.

Over the past two years, Baird has surveyed 1,500 consumers every six months on their video and broadband consumption habits. The surveys are conducted online and skew to younger consumers, so the percentage of cord-cutters is likely over-represented. Still, the general trend is instructive, Baird analyst William Power said in a report about the August survey results.

Meanwhile, the percentage of current pay-TV subscribers interested in canceling or reducing their service is unchanged from a year ago. About 19% of subscribers are considering canceling their video service and 28% are thinking about reducing their video package, Baird said.

Companies best positioned to capitalize on the cord-cutting, cord-shaving and cord-never trends are Netflix, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) and Akamai Technologies (NASDAQ:AKAM), Power said.

Netflix offers the leading over-the-top (OTT) Internet television service. Apple makes a popular set-top box for receiving Internet TV (the Apple TV) and is rumored to be planning its own OTT TV service. Akamai provides Internet content delivery services.

Baird survey respondents see streaming as the future of TV. Some 56% of respondents say that a streaming service will be their primary TV provider in 10 years' time, up from 48% a year ago.

"Price is far and away the No.1 dissatisfaction with traditional cable service, followed by streaming alternatives and paying for more channels than you need, all of which feed the OTT opportunity," Power said.

Besides Netflix, other main OTT video services are Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN), Hulu and Time Warner 's (NYSE:TWX) HBO Now.

RELATED:

Netflix Emmy tally a disappointment, trounced by HBO.