Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) fall product launch event Wednesday provided little to excite investors. The products were all widely expected and were either tweaks to existing devices or niche products unlikely to move the needle for the massive consumer electronics vendor.

But several analysts issued upbeat reports about the new products, spurring a modest rebound in Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) shares Thursday. Apple stock rose 2.2% Thursday, to 112.57. On Wednesday, Apple stock fell 1.9% as investors reacted to the iPhone 6S, iPad Pro and new Apple TV.

Apple did not announce a big new offering like its rumored Internet TV service or reveal a major initiative like developing an Apple electric car. (It did poke fun at the Internet chatter on the latter.) Details about the company's latest iPhones, iPads and TV set-top box had leaked to the tech press ahead of Wednesday's event in San Francisco.

The new Apple iPad Pro is seen in three different finishes during the Apple product event Wednesday. View Enlarged Image

"Some might be disappointed that Apple isn't reinventing the world," UBS analyst Steven Milunovich said in a research report Thursday. "But Apple is now mainstream and not the upstart. Consolidating its ecosystem and pragmatically improving upon current products plays to the large installed base and increasingly annuity-like revenue streams."

Milunovich rates Apple stock a buy, with a 12-month price target of 150.

RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani said Apple's fall product line offered "plenty to like." Apple's stock could climb once the first-weekend iPhone 6S sales numbers come in and initial demand becomes apparent, he said in a note Wednesday.

Daryanani rates Apple stock outperform with a price target of 150.

IPhones Incremental Upgrades

The company's ninth-generation iPhones look the same as last year's models, with the exception of a new rose-gold color model. But Apple touted a host of new capabilities and features afforded by upgraded components, such as a pressure-sensitive display, a faster processor and improved front- and rear-facing cameras.

The 3D Touch display lets users preview emails without opening them, get glimpses of other content and expose shortcuts for apps. The new touch display can tell the difference between a soft press and a hard one.

The iPhone 6S has a 12-megapixel rear camera, vs. 8 megapixels on last year's model. It shoots 4K ultra high-definition video for the first time. The phone has a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera that uses the Retina display as a flash for taking better selfies.

Apple also introduced a feature called Live Photos, which automatically turns still photos into 1.5-second video clips. Some likened the special effect to something out of a Harry Potter movie.