A new survey shows that Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone buyers increasingly are choosing models with richer flash memory configurations, which should provide a boost to Apple's earnings.

RBC Capital Markets said Thursday that its recent survey of 1,055 prospective iPhone buyers found that 16.1% plan to purchase the top-end model with 128 gigabytes of flash data storage, up from 12% last year.

RBC said 51.4% intend to buy the midrange 64 GB model, up from 48% last year. And 32.5% plan to get the low-end 16 GB handset, down from 40% last year.

Apple's installment billing plan, the iPhone Upgrade Program, also should boost gross profit margins, RBC analyst Amit Daryanani said in a research report. The survey found that 20% of iPhone buyers plan to use Apple's new financing plan, he said.

The survey results should give investors confidence that Apple can boost iPhone unit sales in the December quarter, he said.

Daryanani rates Apple stock as outperform, with a price target of 150. Apple was down nearly 2% in midday trading in the stock market today, near 108.

Average selling prices for iPhones are seen rising to $689 in the December quarter, up $2 from the year-earlier quarter, Daryanani said.

Of the iPhone buyers surveyed, 65.4% plan to get one of the new iPhone 6S models, with the rest opting for lower-priced iPhone 6 and 5S models, RBC said.

More than a third (37.9%) plan to buy a 5.5-inch Plus model iPhone. Most (52.1%) plan to get a standard 4.7-inch model, with the rest (10%) getting the 2-year-old 4-inch model.

"Not surprisingly, about 71% of respondents who intend to buy an iPhone are existing Apple users," Daryanani said. "However, an impressive 14% of respondents who intend to purchase an iPhone are new to the Apple ecosystem and the majority are coming from Google's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Android."

Apple Watch Demand Steady

RBC described Apple Watch demand as showing "steady momentum."

RBC's survey found that 13.3% of iPhone customers plan to buy Apple's smartwatch this year, with 20.5% undecided. The majority (66.3%) have no plans to get an Apple Watch this year.

A survey by Mizuho Securities found that many consumers are waiting for the second-generation Apple Watch before deciding whether to purchase one.

RELATED:

Apple iPhone 6S component costs up 7% over prior model

Apple crows about iPhone 6S sales, investors disappointed

Apple iPhone 6S launch sees shorter lines, less enthusiasm.