If your new iPhone 6S is pink, it might be because it's blushing. A teardown by iFixit on Friday — the day of the iPhone 6S launch — reveals the usual suspects but notes no major content increases from Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) chip suppliers Avago (NASDAQ:AVGO) and Qorvo (NASDAQ:QRVO), according to Mizuho Securities analyst Vijay Rakesh.

"Overall the teardown results appear in line," he wrote in a research report. "Content at Skyworks Solutions (NASDAQ:SWKS) is up on the (iPhone) 6S/6S Plus, while Avago and Qorvo appear to be flat."

It looks like Samsung, and not rival Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (NYSE:TSM), manufactured the Apple A9 processor, according to iFixit, though TSM also could be making some of those key components.

Intel (NASDAQ:INTC), which has vied for Apple business, was absent from the 6S chip party, as expected.

The iPhone 6S carries modem, intelligence, power management and radio frequency transmission chips from Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM), plus power amplifiers from Skyworks and Avago, says iFixit.

NXP, Cirrus, InvenSense Also In

Other suppliers include NXP Semiconductors (NASDAQ:NXPI) with a controller (integrated into the A9) and Cirrus Logic (NASDAQ:CRUS), which teamed with Apple on an audio chip. Texas Instruments (NASDAQ:TXN) provided a power management chip.

InvenSense's (NYSE:INVN) gyroscope and accelerometer chip made its debut in the original iPhone 6 and came back for an encore in the iPhone 6S series, the teardown shows. NXP's display chip, which first appeared in the iPhone 5S and 5C, also played a repeat performance in the 6S, with somewhat of a face-lift, says iFixit.

IFixit gives the iPhone 6S a seven out of a possible 10 on repairability, noting that the tucked-away Touch ID cable and proprietary screws complicate an otherwise easy-to-repair phone.

But teardowns are an incomplete science and might offer a skewed view of Avago and Qualcomm's chips, Mizuho's Rakesh wrote.

"Discrete filters such as those from Avago FBAR (film bulk acoustic resonator) are tough to identify on teardowns and so the actual Avago content might be higher," he wrote.

Rakesh has buy ratings on Avago, NXP, Qorvo and Skyworks. He rates Qualcomm stock as neutral.

Apple chip-supplier stocks benefited from Apple's "Big Event" earlier this month — its annual September product unveilings — and repeated the pattern Friday.

In midday trading Friday, Cirrus Logic was the clear winner among chip stocks, up more than 15% and trading above 31. Apple — its stock flat in midday trading — seemingly dragged its chip suppliers out of the mud.

Of the suppliers named here, only InvenSense stock was down. InvenSense shares were down 2.5%.

Skyworks and Avago shares were up 3% in midday trading on the stock market today, with Qorvo stock was up 4.5%. Taiwan Semi and Qualcomm were up a fraction.

Connect with Allison Gatlin on Twitter @IBD_AGatlin and on Facebook.