Rocked by competitive concerns and a disappointing new product launch, GoPro (NASDAQ:GPRO) is experiencing a "valuation reset" with investors, Cowen analyst Rob Stone said in a research report Wednesday.

Stone reiterated his outperform rating on the action camera maker but slashed his price target on GoPro stock to 60 from 76. GoPro stock was down 3% to near 32 in midday trading on the stock market today. GoPro reached an eight-month high of 65.49 on Aug. 10.

Cautious commentary by Ambarella (NASDAQ:AMBA), which supplies video processing chips for GoPro cameras, and a slower-than-expected start for the Hero 4 Session camera are weighing on GoPro shares, Stone said.

But concerns about competition from Sony (NYSE:SNE) and others, as well as a possible entry into the market by Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), are overblown, he said. Apple is unlikely to enter the market because it's not a big enough opportunity for a company of its size, he said.

"We believe GoPro can strengthen investor confidence and the competitive position if it continues to execute on: new software and services, content and licensing, and the first-half 2016 drone launch," Stone said. "A differentiated software ecosystem in particular could help build a moat around the hardware."

Upcoming catalysts for the company include the usually strong holiday shopping season and the launch of a quadcopter "flying camera" drone early next year, he said.

GoPro continues to dominate the camera sales charts at Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Best Buy (NYSE:BBY), he said.

GoPro CEO Nick Woodman told CNBC Tuesday that his company is growing its ecosystem, defending market share and partnering with top tech companies to deliver new services to consumers.

Woodman said he doesn't believe Apple is working on a competing action camera, Fortune reported .

"I do not think that Apple is investing and exploring GoPro-like devices," Woodman said Tuesday at a tech conference hosted by tech news site TechCrunch in San Francisco.

RELATED:

GoPro stock hammered by one-hit wonder label.