Earnings season is coming back around the bend, and Facebook (NASDAQ:FB), Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX) and Avago Technologies (NASDAQ:AVGO) are just a few of the notable stocks on this week's IBD 50 roundup.

While many IBD 50 companies are expected to report a quarter-over-quarter earnings slowdown, Wall Street expects Facebook's earnings growth to accelerate to 21% from the previous quarter's 16% EPS gain.

The social networking heavyweight, which reports Q3 results on Nov. 4 after the close, topped Goldman Sachs' list of the 100 largest S&P 500 stocks ranked by estimated 2016 sales growth.

The investment bank expects Facebook to clock a 35% revenue rise and 32% EPS gain next year, vs. its 2015 forecast for 38% sales growth and a 5% EPS decline.

Facebook shares edged up 1.2% on Friday.

Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) chip supplier Avago Technologies is expected to register 20% in per-share earnings gains, according to Wall Street consensus estimates, down from a 78% EPS spike last quarter. The previous three quarters saw triple-digit growth.

A teardown of the Apple iPhone 6S revealed last week that the smartphone's Avago innards remained unchanged, with no content gains, according to Mizuho Securities. The newest Apple iPhone models, the 6S and 6S Plus, sold well on opening weekend, with more than 13 million units flying off shelves.

Avago shares rose 1% Friday.

Chipotle Mexican Grill's (NYSE:CMG) earnings are seen growing 11% vs. 27% last quarter. The popular burrito chain also has experienced a steady slowdown in earnings growth. Q1 saw a 47% jump, Q4 52% and Q3 56%.

Chipotle said Monday that its pork supply woes are over and that customers can find carnitas in 90% of its restaurants, with pork back in full force on menus by the end of November.

Shares of Chipotle ended flat on Friday.

Analysts expect Starbucks earnings to rise 16% this quarter, down from 24% in its prior period. But same-store sales have been robust with new digital initiatives adding momentum.

The household java name launched its Mobile Order & Pay feature in the U.K. this week at over 150 London locations and completed its rollout across the U.S. last month.

Starbucks shares gained 1%.

Coffee competitor Dunkin' Brands (NASDAQ:DNKN) sank Thursday after the coffee-and-doughnut shop operator said that it expects Q3 same-store sales to grow 1.1%, below estimates.

Nike's (NYSE:NKE) per-share earnings are seen rising 15%, vs. 23% last quarter. Demand for its shoes and apparel remains strong across the world, especially in key growth markets like China. But currency headwinds have weighed Nike's results.