In the Volkswagen Group, there is a sense that a new era is dawning. On the eve of the 66th International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt am Main the CEO of Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft, Prof. Dr. Martin Winterkorn, said on Monday evening: 'We are in the process of reinventing Europe's largest automaker, laying the technological, economic and structural foundations.' The Group Chairman announced there would be 20 more electric cars and plug-in hybrids by 2020 - from compact cars to the next Phaeton and Audi A8: 'No commitment to electro-mobility can be any clearer than that.' He said the Group already had the broadest electric fleet in the automobile world, and added that Volkswagen was also at the forefront when it came to the future-oriented field of digitization: 'Our Group already has the largest connected vehicle fleet on the road. By 2020 we will have transformed all of our new cars into smartphones on wheels.'

According to Winterkorn: 'At a time of major social and technological upheaval, people expect new answers, new solutions and new directions from us.' Volkswagen was facing up to these challenges, he said, for example as regards electro-mobility, and was showcasing this at the IAA. 'The Porsche Mission E and the Audi e-tron quattro concept are nothing less than a quantum leap for our industry.' Both vehicles have an all-electric range of 500 kilometers. He went on to say that the 'new Volkswagen Tiguan GTE embodies 'our determination to systematically take the plug-in hybrid to further classes and segments.' The Group was also showcasing forward-looking concepts and technologies for charging electric cars such as 'V-Charge' (Volkswagen) and 'Turbo Charging' (Porsche). Calling on policymakers Winterkorn said: 'We have the right cars. Now what is needed is the right framework for this key technology to really catch on.'



Speaking in Frankfurt, Winterkorn also commented that digitization, the second big future field, had already been part of Volkswagen's DNA for a long time: 'Connectivity and state-of-the-art infotainment have already made their way into all our brands and classes.' He added: 'Our Group already has the largest connected vehicle fleet on the road. But we are not stopping there: by the end of this decade we will have transformed all of our new cars into smartphones on wheels.' In so doing, he said, the Group was also 'paving the way for one of the most fascinating technologies of our time: automated driving.'

As Winterkorn explained: 'Audi and Volkswagen are making sure our customers benefit from this technology as quickly as possible: on highways, in stop-and-go traffic, when searching for a parking space.' He added that entirely new, digital operating concepts such as gesture control were not science fiction at Volkswagen, but would 'shortly become reality in our cars.'



The CEO stated that he could not recall another time when the company had worked simultaneously on so many and such promising themes as it was doing today. 'At Volkswagen there is a sense that a new era is dawning. With 'Future Tracks' we were the first to make the transformation in the auto industry the number one topic - and that is paying off now.' Turning his attention to new competitors from the IT industry, he made clear that 'Volkswagen is staying in the driver's seat: mobility in all shapes and sizes remains our unique domain and passion in the digital era, too.'



Winterkorn commented that the Group was working on all of the new topics with the same intensity and passion that it brought to top-quality finishing and the best combustion engines. 'Technological leadership is no longer solely defined in terms of horsepower and torque. We are taking the precision, enduring value and quality of our cars into the new, digital world', Winterkorn said.