E-commerce leader Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN) on Thursday rolled out an arsenal of new tablets and TV set-top boxes to counter Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) recent fall product launch.

Both companies are prepping their lineups for the all-important holiday shopping season.

Seattle-based Amazon introduced seven new products via press release on Thursday, and Amazon stock closed up 2.18% at 538.87 in the stock market today.

By contrast, Apple held a flashy two-hour-plus media event at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, capped by a performance by rock band OneRepublic, on Sept. 9 to show off its new gadgets.

Amazon touted four new tablet computers, with screen sizes ranging from 7 to 10.1 inches, and three streaming video devices.

Budget Fire Tablet

Amazon's tablet lineup starts with its budget Fire tablet, a 7-inch slate costing just $49.99. Customers also can buy a six-pack of Fire tablets for $249.95, a buy-five-get-one-free deal.

Apple's cheapest tablet, the iPad Mini 2 with a 7.9-inch display, starts at $269.

The Fire tablet features a quad-core processor, front- and rear-facing cameras, all-day battery life (seven hours of use), and a slot for adding up to 128 gigabytes of storage via MicroSD card.

"Today, we're taking another step in our mission to deliver premium products at non-premium prices," Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos said in a statement. "Fire sets a new bar for what customers should expect from a low-cost tablet."

The Fire tablet is designed for watching movies, playing games, reading books, listening to music and surfing the Web.

Durable Tablet For Kids

Amazon also trotted out a new durable tablet for children costing $99. This year's Fire HD Kids Edition is $50 less than last year's model.

It packages a 7-inch Fire tablet in a kid-proof case and comes with one year of Amazon FreeTime Unlimited, 20,000 curated and age-appropriate websites and YouTube videos, and a two-year "worry-free" guarantee against damage.

Amazon FreeTime Unlimited offers more than 10,000 books, videos, educational apps, and games for kids ages 3 to 10. After the one-year trial is over, Amazon FreeTime Unlimited starts at $2.99 a month.

Revamped Standard Tablets

Amazon also upgraded its top-of-the-line Fire HD tablets with an 8-inch model for $149.99 and 10.1-inch model for $229.99. These tablets compete with Apple's iPad Mini and 9.7-inch iPad Air, respectively. (Apple's iPad Air starts at $399.)

The Fire HD tablets come in a thin and light design with four colors: black, magenta, blue and tangerine. They sport a quad-core processor, stereo speakers with Dolby (NYSE:DLB) audio, front- and rear-facing cameras, expandable data storage and all-day battery life (eight hours of use).