Dunkin' Brands (NASDAQ:DNKN) shares plunged after the coffee-and-doughnut chain issued weak third-quarter comp sales expectations and said that 100 franchised units in Speedway convenience stores will close in 2015 and 2016.

The company said at its analyst day that it sees Q3 same-store sales edging up 1.1%, below some analyst estimates, and reiterated full-year guidance for 410-440 net new Dunkin' Donuts U.S. locations.

The guidance doesn't include store closings of "100 franchise-owned Speedway-operated self-service units that Speedway plans to close during the remainder of 2015 and into 2016," Dunkin' spokeswoman Karen Raskopf told IBD via email.

"These Speedway locations represent only 0.1% of Dunkin' Donuts U.S. sales, and their closure presents Dunkin' Donuts with an opportunity to re-enter many trade areas with full-menu traditional restaurants."

Dunkin' will also commence testing mobile ordering this November in Portland, Maine, and plans to roll out the service nationwide next year. Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX) recently rolled out its mobile-order-and-pay feature across the country after launching a regional test in the Pacific Northwest late last year.

Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) Pay will be available in Dunkin' stores beginning in 2016. The mobile payment feature is launching on the Dunkin' Donuts app this month. The Cupertino, Calif., tech giant in June announced that Apple Pay would become available at Dunkin' Donuts, Panera Bread (NASDAQ:PNRA) and a number of other retailers.

The Dunkin' Donuts and Baskin-Robbins parent also reiterated guidance for 2015 per-share earnings of $1.87 to $1.91 and sales growth of 6% to 8%. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect earnings of $1.92 a share and 7.9% revenue growth to $808.1 million.

Shares of Dunkin' ended down 12.2% on the stock market today, hitting their lowest level since March. Starbucks rose 1.1%, and Apple shed 0.7%.

RELATED:

Are Things Lining Up Favorably For Restaurant Stocks?

Will Rising Sponsorship Translate To Stock Gains?