Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) earned high marks for the new products it unveiled Tuesday, but Wall Street analysts doubt that these latest smartphones, tablet-notebook convertibles and wearable devices will be big sales drivers for the company.

At a product launch event in New York City, Microsoft showed off new Lumia smartphones, the Surface Pro 4 tablet with attachable keyboard and the Surface Book notebook PC with detachable tablet display. It also trotted out the Microsoft Band 2 wearable fitness tracker and demonstrated its still-in-development HoloLens holographic computing glasses.

Microsoft wants to change the perception that it is a "rounding error" in the mobile device landscape, FBR analyst Daniel Ives said in a research note Tuesday.

"While the new hardware products look impressive, it all comes down to consumer adoption as Microsoft aggressively tries to change its consumer image," Ives said. He rates Microsoft stock as outperform.

Microsoft's Lumia smartphones are a distant third in market share behind Alphabet's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Google Android-based handsets and Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhones, lacking the scale in app ecosystem and user base necessary to attract consumers and developers. Microsoft is positioning its Lumia 950 and 950 XL handsets as full Windows 10 PCs for users focused on productivity.

"We continue to be skeptical about Microsoft's ability to take meaningful smartphone share," Cowen analyst Gregg Moskowitz said in a note Tuesday. He rates Microsoft stock market perform, with a price target of 49.

Microsoft stock rose a fraction to 46.80 on the stock market today.

With its latest Surface computers, Microsoft is pursuing the high-end of the portable computer market, where Apple reigns. At the event, Microsoft compared the performance of the Surface Pro 4 with Apple's MacBook Air and the Surface Book with Apple's MacBook Pro. But Microsoft has priced its devices at a premium to Apple.

The 12.3-inch Surface Pro 4 starts at $1,029 with a keyboard cover, compared with the $999 starting price for the 13-inch MacBook Air.

The 13.5-inch Surface Book starts at $1,499, compared with $1,299 for an entry-level 13-inch MacBook Pro.

Microsoft's second-generation fitness band, the Microsoft Band 2, plays in a space between Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) activity trackers and the Apple Watch smartwatch. It costs $250, the same price as a high-end Fitbit Surge GPS watch, but less than the $349 starting price of the Apple Watch.

Jefferies analyst John DiFucci said Microsoft's fall product launch didn't change his bearish view on Microsoft. He rates Microsoft stock underperform, with a price target of 37.

"We still see Microsoft as overly dependent on the secularly challenged PC ecosystem, and we believe there is material risk to a transition to cloud," DiFucci said in a report Tuesday.

Microsoft's entry into the laptop market with the Surface Book could strain its relationship with hardware partners that make their own Windows PCs, such as Lenovo and Hewlett-Packard (NYSE:HPQ), he said.