NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Volkswagen's (VLKAY) investigation into a cheating scandal connected to diesel engine emission tests in the U.S. will be reviewed at a meeting of the automaker's supervisory board on Wednesday, when Hans Dieter Poetsch is expected to take over as the new chairman.

The probe has narrowed to focus on two VW executives in charge of engineering, Ulrich Hackenberg and Wolfgang Hatz, who were in charge when go-ahead was given for a software program that enabled emissions controls on diesel VWs and Audis during testing and relaxed them in real-world conditions.

Poetsch, in an internal VW meeting last week, is said to have called the cheating scandal "existence threatening" but not insurmountable. He had been VW's chief financial officer. The automaker launched a media campaign promising to win back the country's trust -- on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of reuniting East and West Germany into one country.

Martin Winterkorn resigned on Sept. 23 as VW CEO following charges by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that the diesel tests had been faked. VW replaced him with Matthias Mueller, who had been head of the company's Porsche subsidiary. But Winterkorn continues to occupy four key executive posts, including chairman of the Porsche family trust that controls more than half of VW's stock.

VW's common stock continued to sink in European trading on Monday. The price was about 100 euros a share, compared with about 160 euros prior to the EPA announcement on Sept. 18.

The affair swirling around VW, a champion of the German economy, has rocked the nation's government. Angela Merkel, chancellor, asserted this weekend on Deutschlandfunk radio that "I believe that the reputation of German industry, the trust in Germany as a business location, hasn't been so shaken that we won't continue to be seen as a good business location."

German newspapers have been reporting that VW already has uncovered facts surrounding the decision by several company engineers to rig the testing of diesel engines because the automaker was unable to meet performance standards promised by the company and also comply with government clean-air standards.

The roots of the cheating may go back nearly a decade, starting with the hiring of Wolfgang Bernhard, a prominent Daimler executive. Bernhard, who had helped lead the former Daimler Chrysler in the U.S., argued for using Daimler's BlueTec concept of cleaning diesel emissions through the use of a special urea treatment. (The treatment is costly and requires owner maintenance to remove NOX pollutants, but it is needed in the U.S. where permitted levels are much lower than in Europe).

Other VW engineers argued against the urea treatment and in favor of the automaker's own TDI turbocharged injection system -- which ultimately couldn't meet performance and regulatory expectations. Bernhard shortly after left VW and returned to his former employer, where he continues to serve as a senior executive.