The autonomous vehicle space is starting to turn into a traffic jam as General Motors gets help from Mobileye to speed up development of self-driving Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid cars.

GM (NYSE:GM) said Thursday that it's working on a "heightened partnership" with the provider of advanced driver-assistance technology. The automaker wants to begin testing self-driving Volts late next year on its Warren Technical Center campus outside Detroit.

During the tests, GM employees will be able to reserve a Volt using a car-sharing app and then select a destination, the company said in a statement. The car's autonomous technology will take the Volt to a destination and park itself.

"The program will serve as a rapid-development laboratory to provide data and lessons to accelerate the company's technical capabilities in autonomous vehicles," GM said.

To fund the ambitious project, GM plans to cut $5.5 billion in manufacturing, purchasing, information technology and administrative costs over the next three years.

Shares closed up 2.2%. Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) shares climbed 3.2%.

GM's autonomous-car effort comes as tech firms are looking to disrupt the auto industry. According to reports, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is developing an electric car with a target date of 2019.

Tesla Motors (NASDAQ:TSLA) is developing its own autonomous features, also with Mobileye technology's help. In a note published in August, Morgan Stanley said that it sees Tesla dominating the autonomous-auto market.

Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) started working on self-driving cars in 2009 and expects to have the vehicles ready in 2020. The ride-hailing startup Uber is working on driverless cars as well.

Meanwhile, China search giant Baidu (NASDAQ:BIDU) — which is allied with Uber — is working on its own autonomous technology and in March said that a car that drives itself but lets a human driver take control when needed would be out later this year.

Also Thursday, GM launched a car-sharing program in New York City. Eligible residents of the Ritz Plaza luxury apartment building will be able to use a GM-developed mobile app to reserve a vehicle and access parking in one of 200 garages in Manhattan run by Icon Parking Systems.

GM said that it will introduce a similar program in another, as-yet-unnamed city in Q1.

Among other initiatives, GM unveiled an electric bike concept and confirmed its plans to jointly develop a fuel-cell vehicle with Honda (NYSE:HMC) by 2020.