Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone 6S handsets are compelling enough to increase the company's share of the high-end smartphone market, Canaccord Genuity analyst Michael Walkley said in a research note Sunday.

"Based on our survey work and analysis of leading carrier store traffic and price promotions, we anticipate Apple will maintain very strong share of the premium-tier smartphone market," Walkley said. "In fact, we believe the iPhone 6S products should enable Apple to continue to post strong sales and high-end smartphone market share gains."

Walkley reiterated his buy rating on Apple stock and raised his price target to 160 from 155. Apple stock was up 1%, near 114.50, in morning trading on the stock market today.

Installment plan billing by Apple and wireless carriers will make owning the newest iPhone models more appealing to consumers, he said.

Apple has a lot of upgrade business ahead because only 27% of the iPhone installed base will have moved to iPhone 6 series models by the end of the third quarter, Walkley said.

He also said Apple continues to make market share gains against Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Android-based handsets from the likes of Samsung and others.

"These trends should grow the iPhone installed base to over 500 million exiting calendar 2015, and this base should drive strong future iPhone replacement sales, earnings, as well as cash flow generation to fund strong long-term capital returns programs," Walkley said.

The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus smartphones go on sale on Friday at Apple stores, major wireless carriers and other authorized dealers.

Fastest iOS Adoption Rate

Apple announced Monday that its latest mobile operating system, iOS 9, already has been installed on 50% of Apple mobile devices.

That's the fastest adoption ever for an iOS software release, Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing, said in statement.

Apple made iOS 9 available to download for iPhones and iPads last Wednesday. It features improved search and Siri features, revamped Notes and Maps apps, and an all-new News app.

RELATED:

Apple stock flat amid conflicting iPhone sales forecasts.