Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN) could go live with a Web TV streaming service, says a report. "Over the past few months, multiple content owners have told me that Amazon has been quietly asking them about licensing content for a live streaming service," wrote Dan Rayburn, in a blog at website StreamingMedia.com.

Amazon Instant Video, operated by Amazon, first offered old TV shows and movies-on-demand but has expanded into original content, taking on Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) and others. Amazon's original series, "Transparent," won five Emmy Awards last month.

Amazon also has been acquiring more content rights, signing a deal last week with CBS.

Netflix, the leader in on-demand content, has stated that it's not interested in offering live or broadcast TV.

"While none of the content owners want to go on record, or will discuss how far along Amazon is with their plans, other companies involved in the video ecosystem also confirm that Amazon is looking at potentially offering a live OTT (over-the-top) video service of some kind," said Rayburn, also an analyst at Frost & Sullivan, in the blog.

Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) long-anticipated Web TV service could finally launch in 2016, analysts say. Satellite TV broadcaster Dish Network (NASDAQ:DISH) rolled out its "Sling" service in January. Verizon Communications (NYSE:VZ) has launched Go90, an OTT service targeting mobile video users.

"It's possible Amazon is simply looking at the economics of the business, which would involve them talking with content owners about costs," wrote Rayburn.

Amazon will stop selling TV streaming devices from Apple and Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) at its online store on Oct. 29. Apple TV and Google's Chromecast compete with Amazon's Fire TV and Fire TV stick.

Google's YouTube, meanwhile, competes with Netflix and Amazon's streaming service for viewership among millennials and young adults that have never subscribed to pay-TV, called cord nevers. A Forrester study says Apple may have a hard time competing with Apple for "cord nevers."

Follow Reinhardt Krause on Twitter @IBD_RKrause.