Dish Network (NASDAQ:DISH) will find a way to make money off its wireless-spectrum licenses, says Deutsche Bank, which initiated coverage on the satellite TV broadcaster with a buy rating, though it says Dish's core business could be pressured by Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL).

Deutsche analyst Bryan Kraft set a price target of 92 on Dish Network stock. Shares of the company are down more than 15% this year, but Dish Network stock was up more than 1% in early afternoon trading in the stock market today, near 62.

"Dish has put together an enviable mid-band wireless-spectrum portfolio that we believe has at least three potential buyers or lessees (Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile US), wrote Kraft, who values those airwaves at $44 billion.

"While the ultimate path to monetization isn't entirely clear, we find the risk/reward compelling," he said.

Dish Network's subscriber growth has stalled amid competition from phone companies and new Internet video services. Dish had 13.93 million subscribers as of June 30.

"We are projecting Dish to lose nearly 2.5 million subscribers during our 2016-2020 forecast period," added Kraft. "We anticipate an Apple pay-TV service to launch in the back half of 2016, which is the primary driver of our forecasted subscriber headwinds for Dish."

Apple has been delayed in acquiring content rights from programmers, various reports have said.

Dish has cobbled together 80 MHz of spectrum, more than T-Mobile US (NYSE:TMUS). Dish needs to find a tax-efficient path to either selling or leasing its spectrum to a wireless firm, says Kraft.

Verizon (NYSE:VZ) has stated it is not interested in acquiring Dish outright, including the company's core pay-TV business. But, Verizon has the least spectrum per subscriber.

Here are Kraft's views on the possibilities:

•Verizon. "One of the key challenges for Verizon is that an acquisition of Dish's spectrum would be a large acquisition of spectrum assets that don't generate any earnings or cash flow. Therefore, any transaction would bring with it some significant earnings dilution."

•AT&T (NYSE:T) "Dish could sell some or all of its spectrum to AT&T. AT&T's ownership of DirecTV would likely prevent an acquisition of Dish's DBS (satellite TV) business for antitrust reasons." AT&T executives last month indicated, however, that no big deals are on the telecom's plate.

•T-Mobile. "A potential combination would address an embedded spectrum liability for T-Mobile, but doesn't generate EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization)."

Follow Reinhardt Krause on Twitter @IBD_RKrause.