Raytheon (NYSE:RTN) said Monday it bought Foreground Security as the Defense Department looks to boost its cybersecurity and electronic warfare capabilities, as traditional cybersecurity firms face increased competition.

Raytheon didn't give terms for its deal, but said the acquisition would help increase its expansion into security at the "federal, international and commercial markets."

Raytheon shares rose 2.5% to close at 109.79 in the stock market today.

Defense contractors are looking to expand their cybersecurity operations as the Pentagon puts new emphasis on electronic warfare.

Earlier this year the DOD opened an office in Silicon Valley as recent high-profile hacks have been linked to state-backed operations in countries like North Korea and China. And smaller players are taking aim, too.

"Criminal and terrorist networks are increasing their cyberoperations," Defense Secretary Ash Carter said last month. "Low-cost and global proliferation of malware have lowered barriers to entry and made it easier for smaller malicious actors to strike in cyberspace."

Raytheon bought Websense, a security firm, in April for $1.9 billion. Cybersecurity accounted for 10% of Lockheed Martin 's (NYSE:LMT) revenue in the second-quarter.

Cybersecurity firms are also looking to the military to boost their operations.

FireEye (NASDAQ:FEYE) has hired more than 100 ex-government hackers since 2013.

But the firm was downgraded on Tuesday from overweight to neutral by Piper Jaffray on increased competition.

FireEye shares tumbled 3.6% to close at 31.88, a 9 month low.

Meanwhile, cybersecurity firms are looking to the military to find expertise. Palo Alto Networks (NYSE:PANW) has appointed Rick Howard, a 20-year veteran of the Army, as its chief security officer. Palo Alto shares rose 1.2% Monday.

Companies in the private sector are looking to increase their security from cyberattacks. Earlier, Piper Jaffray analysts said they see CyberArk Software's (NASDAQ:CYBR) revenue growing 40% over the next two to three years as companies bolster their security inside the firewall. CyberArk shares closed up 0.9%.

Check Point Software Technologies (NASDAQ:CHKP) is developing security for mobile devices as hackers look to attack Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhones as well as devices using Alphabet's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Android operating systems.

CheckPoint shares climbed climbed 2.3% to 82.36

Follow Gillian Rich on Twitter @IBD_GRich.