Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone Upgrade Program and similar smartphone trade-in programs from wireless carriers are poised to put the hurt on Outerwall's (NASDAQ:OUTR) struggling ecoATM venture.

The ecoATM business uses automated self-service kiosks to buy back old phones, tablets and MP3 players for cash. It then resells the used devices.

But the trade-in programs from Apple and its carrier partners are likely to greatly reduce the supply of used iPhones available for purchase by ecoATM and similar independent services.

Outerwall has pointed to ecoATM as a potential growth driver for the company as its core Redbox DVD rental business matures. But in the June quarter, ecoATM revenue rose just 9.5% year over year to $26.1 million, despite more than doubling the number of kiosks that it operates. It ended Q2 with 2,260 ecoATM kiosks, up from 980 a year earlier.

During the June quarter, Outerwall also took a non-cash goodwill-impairment charge of $86 million related to the ecoATM business.

Wedbush Securities analyst Michael Pachter called the ecoATM business "a failure," saying that it might never be profitable.

Outerwall stock fell 1.1% to 59 on the stock market today. Shares hit an all-time high of 85.26 on July 21.

Chatter is rising online that Outerwall should bail on the ecoATM as a lost cause, especially since Apple announced its iPhone Upgrade Program on Sept. 9.

Adib Motiwala, president and portfolio manager at Motiwala Capital, says that Outerwall needs to shut down or sell ecoATM.

"The ecoATM acquisition has been a disaster so far and is unprofitable after 2-plus years," Motiwala said in a Sept. 17 post on Seeking Alpha. "Outerwall spent $250 million on the acquisition in 2013 (for the stake it did not already own) and has produced losses of $30 million in 2014 and $15 million year to date."

Outerwall would be better served by paying down debt, reducing capital expenses and focusing on dividends and share buybacks, Motiwala said.

"EcoATM has not delivered as per management and investors' expectations," he said. "Investing more time and efforts (in it) does not seem wise."

RELATED:

Apple keeping battery-case makers in business with iPhone 6S.