Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) next month will open a flagship store in New York City just six blocks south of Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) flagship Manhattan store.

Microsoft on Wednesday said it plans to open the store at 677 Fifth Ave. on Oct. 26. The five-floor, 22,269 square-foot location will be Microsoft's first flagship store. It plans to open a second flagship store in Sydney, Australia, on Nov. 12.

The flagship stores will feature the latest personal technology from Microsoft and its partners, as well as the Answer Desk, a one-stop shop for technical questions, troubleshooting and repairs; and the Community Theater, a place where customers can learn how to use Microsoft's latest and most popular products.

Microsoft opened its first retail store in October 2006 in Scottsdale, Ariz. The Redmond, Wash.-based software giant now operates 104 stores in the U.S. and eight in Canada, for a total of 112.

By comparison, Apple operates 268 stores in the U.S. and 191 in 16 other countries, for a total of 459 stores.

Microsoft will have a bunch of new products to show off at its flagship NYC store and other outlets after next week. The company has scheduled an event for next Tuesday to unveil Windows 10 devices.

The company is expected to show off the Surface Pro 4 tablet-notebook, the Microsoft Band 2 wearable fitness tracker and new Lumia smartphones.

It also could use the event to tout its holiday video game lineup for the Xbox One console. The biggest game on the horizon is "Halo 5: Guardians," an exclusive title due for release on Oct. 27.

Q3 Earnings Ahead

A third big date next month is Oct. 22, when Microsoft is due to report fiscal first-quarter earnings.

Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect Microsoft to earn 58 cents a share, up 7%, on sales of $21.07 billion, down 9%, for the September quarter.

Dissecting the performance of individual product areas could be difficult since Microsoft on Monday announced changes to its financial reporting structure.

It will report revenue and operating income for three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.

The Productivity and Business Processes segment includes Office and Office 365 for commercial customers and consumers, plus Dynamics and Dynamics CRM Online.

The Intelligent Cloud segment includes server products and services such as Windows Server, SQL Server, System Center and Azure.

The awkwardly named More Personal Computing segment includes Windows operating system licensing revenue, hardware such as Surface tablets and Lumia phones, Xbox consoles and video games, and Bing search.