It's becoming a Christmas tradition. Deck the malls. Sparked by social-mobile-focused millennials and the ever-growing market share for Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) and other online players, spending has been shifting from malls' traditional department stores and apparel chains toward experiences and nontangible goods such as wireless services and entertainment.

At 83.1 million strong, the millennials — youths born between 1982 and 2000 — outnumber the 75.4 million baby boomers.

The millennials, now "coming of age," are playing a "dominant role" in the spending shift, says Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics.

A shopper takes a selfie as crowds pour into the Macy's Herald Square flagship store in New York on Thanksgiving night in 2013. View Enlarged Image

Spending on entertainment and mobile data plans "continues to pull discretionary dollars away from the retail space" and malls, Perkins told IBD.

"Spending on apparel is not a primary driver for the millennials," he said. "They're far more interested in what's in their pockets — their smartphones — than what they're wearing."

Apple iPhone Trumps Gap

Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) sold more than 13 million iPhone 6S handsets in its opening weekend. Meanwhile, Gap (NYSE:GPS) announced that it would close a quarter of its namesake Gap stores in North America.

The average "all-in-bill" size, including taxes, fees, etc. for mobile phone service (excluding prepaid phones) was $145 a month in Q2, according to a Cowen & Co. survey, up from $130 in Q3 2013.

Tack on other mobile apps, premium music services such as Spotify and Apple Music and streaming TV services like Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX), and mobile spending eats up a substantial share of millennials' disposable income.

Apparel, Department Stores Decline

Apparel and department-store sales as a share of total retail sales slipped to 19.79% in 2014 from 21.98% in 2009 and 20.03% in 2007, says Michael Niemira, principal at research firm The Retail Economist, citing U.S. Census Bureau data.

Department-store sales have been trending lower for more than a decade. Macy's (NYSE:M) is generally regarded as a well-run chain, with "omnichannel" sales channels. But Macy's has reported lower year-over-year revenue in five of the last seven quarters.

Apparel chains' same-store sales growth lagged retail overall in every quarter in 2014 and the first half of 2015, according to Thomson Reuters.

"Raised in affluent times, baby-boomers were the 'me' generation," Joel Bines, managing director at AlixPartners and head of the firm's retail practice, told IBD. "Millennials, partly because of the go-slow economy and partly because of go-fast technologies, are the 'we' generation. They're all about experiences and about sharing those experiences with friends and others — and that's definitely showing up in their buying patterns."