With stock market uncertainty still front and center for investors, focusing on top-rated companies such as Skechers (NYSE:SKX) and Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) that have long-term stability and strong growth prospects is a good place to look for stock watchlist candidates.

Today's Screen Of The Day is Top Fundamentals, which features highly rated firms with three-year sales and earnings growth rates of at least 25%, sorted by the biggest estimated percent change in earnings per share from a year ago.

A second sort finds five Top Fundamentals list stocks ranked by IBD industry group, another indicator of strength. It's much easier for a well-run company's stock to do well if it's in a top industry group.

Skechers USA

School is back in session, lifting sales of Skechers sports and dress shoes. Skechers' affordable walking shoes have also tapped into the casual-activewear fashion trend along with Nike (NYSE:NKE) and Steven Madden (NASDAQ:SHOO). The Apparel-Shoe & Related Manufacturing group, a small group of eight stocks, is ranked a near-best No. 4 out of 197 groups tracked by IBD. Skechers has a 3-year earnings per share growth rate of 197%.

After its stock ran up 243% from an intraday low on Oct. 15, 2014, to an all-time high of 163.60 on Aug. 6, Skechers has consolidated for nearly a month and a half, trading just below its 50-day average .

Ryland Group

Westlake Village, Calif.-based homebuilder Ryland Group () is in the No. 17 ranked Building-Residential/Commercial group.

Ryland, which has a 106% 3-year EPS growth rate, is one of several housing-related stocks on the Top Fundamentals screen. Housing indicators remain strong including low mortgage rates, tight supply and rising sales. A Sept. 24 Census Bureau report said sales of new single-family homes climbed to 552,000 units in August, up 5.7% from July and 21.6% from a year earlier, surprising many analysts.

Ryland stock edged higher Wednesday after falling intraday Wednesday to an 8-month low.

Facebook

Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg jumped into the top 10 on the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans on Tuesday because his holdings in the No. 1 social site have skyrocketed along with site visits. Facebook last quarter logged 1.19 billion monthly active users and 728 million daily users.

On Sept. 9, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) rolled out its new line of iPhones, and said that Facebook's messaging service will be available on the Apple Watch, giving the social website another lift. Facebook has a 3-year EPS growth rate of 70%, though analysts expect a 21% rise for the just-finished third quarter.