Wearable fitness device maker Fitbit has given investors a workout since it went public in June. The San Francisco-based company saw its initial public offering price at 20 a share and ended its first day of trading on June 18 at 29.68. Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) shares climbed to a record high of 51.90 on Aug. 5 before taking a tumble. The stock currently trades near 37.

Investors are now trying to gauge Fitbit's prospects as it faces increasing competition from rival fitness trackers and smartwatches with fitness features.

In the fitness band market, Fitbit's rivals include Garmin (NASDAQ:GRMN), Jawbone and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT). Among smartwatches with fitness apps, its biggest competition is Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) Apple Watch.

"Fitbit has already proven that it can compete exceptionally well," Barclays analyst Matthew McClintock told IBD. It's secured a huge lead over other fitness band makers. Fitbit has even held its own in the market since the launch of the Apple Watch last spring, he said. McClintock rates Fitbit stock as equal weight with a 49 price target.

Market Shift

Market research firm IDC believes smart wearables like the Apple Watch will surpass basic wearables like Fitbit fitness bands in unit shipments by 2018.

IDC forecasts basic wearable device shipments to rise from 52.1 million units this year to 73.7 million in 2018, with year-to-year growth dropping from 120% to 3%.

By comparison, smart wearables are seen growing from 24 million shipments this year to 84 million in 2018, with year-to-year growth going from 360% to 27%, IDC says.

"Basic wearables will still grow, but in terms of market share, we see them declining in the long run," IDC's Jitesh Ubrani told IBD.

Fitbit focuses on being good at fitness applications rather than making multipurpose devices like smartwatches, McClintock says.

Low-cost vendors like Xiaomi are attempting to commoditize the fitness-tracker market, but consumers will see the difference between their generic gadgets and Fitbit's premium wearables, Ubrani said. Fitbit is differentiated by its software for tracking progress and its social media integration.

"Most people who have used a Xiaomi device realize how basic it is when compared to a Fitbit," Ubrani said. Xiaomi's wearable "doesn't have any of the frills that people have come to love from a device like a Fitbit."

Still, the existence of low-cost fitness bands, such as Xiaomi's $20 device, could put pressure on Fitbit and Jawbone to lower their premium-priced bands, which cost $100 or more, Ubrani said.