Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) took direct aim at Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) on Tuesday with new premium smartphones and convertible notebook-tablets that showed it can make crave-worthy personal technology like its esteemed rival.

At a media event in New York City, Microsoft unveiled smartphones than can replace your desktop computer, tablets that can replace your laptop, an advanced fitness band, and a new video game for its upcoming holographic computing system.

The star of the presentation was Microsoft's Surface Book, a laptop that will compete with Apple's MacBook Pro. Microsoft says the Surface Book has superior computing power and is two times faster than the MacBook Pro.

Microsoft's Surface Book tablet-notebook aims to take on Apple's MacBook Pro. View Enlarged Image

The Surface Book's display unlocks to be used as a tablet with stylus and touch support. The ultrathin device has a 13.5-inch screen, sixth-generation Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) Core i5 or Core i7 processors and up to 12 hours of battery life. It weighs 3.34 pounds.

The Surface Book is the first laptop that Microsoft has built. It starts at $1,499 and will be available Oct. 26.

Microsoft also showed off its fourth-generation tablet-notebook hybrid, the Surface Pro 4. It features a thinner and lighter design, faster processor, better cooling and quieter operation. The Surface Pro 4 starts at $899 and will be available Oct. 26.

The Surface Pro 4 has a 12.3-inch display and a redesigned keyboard cover with a larger touchpad and improved stylus pen. It is 8.4 millimeters thin, vs. 9.1 mm for the Surface Pro 3. It weighs 1.69 pounds vs. 2.4 pounds for its predecessor. The Surface Pro 4 also is 30% faster than the prior model.

Microsoft said the Surface Pro 4 is 50% faster than Apple's MacBook Air.

In 2012, Apple CEO Tim Cook famously criticized converged tablet-notebook devices like the Surface, saying they were like merging a toaster and a refrigerator. But last month, Apple announced its own tablet-notebook hybrid, the iPad Pro, which also uses a stylus, another thing Apple previously bad-mouthed.

Microsoft also rolled out two new smartphones, the Lumia 950 and 950 XL. They have 5.2- and 5.7-inch displays and run the Windows 10 operating system. With a desktop connector, the phone can serve as a full PC. The new phones cost $549 and $649, respectively, and will be available in December.

The new Lumia phones also have improved camera capabilities with a 20-megapixel sensor and triple LED flash.

Microsoft also introduced its second-generation Microsoft Band fitness tracker. The Microsoft Band 2 features a new curved display, making it more comfortable to wear, and has integrated Cortana support so you can reply to texts or set reminders with the touch of a button.

The device has a continuous optical heart-rate monitor, onboard GPS and barometer. It can track calories burned, deep exercise, sleep quality and floors climbed while maintaining 2-day battery life. It starts at $249 and will be available for purchase on Oct. 30.

Microsoft also demonstrated a mixed-reality video game called Project X-Ray. It uses Microsoft's HoloLens holographic computing platform. Gamers wearing the HoloLens glasses can fight off invading robot hordes that appear to be breaking through the walls of their living room.