Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) stock is treading water ahead of the company's iPhone 6S launch next Friday. Shares were flat near 114 in afternoon trading in the stock market today.

Wall Street analysts seem split over whether the company can increase iPhone unit sales with its ninth-generation smartphones. Apple will face tough year-over-year comparisons because last year's iPhone 6 launch unleashed pent-up demand for larger-screen iPhones.

This year's models have the same screen sizes (4.7 and 5.5 inches) with improved components (faster processor, better cameras, pressure-sensitive display, etc.).

Record iPhone Sales Predicted

RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani thinks iPhone unit shipments will increase in the December quarter, eclipsing the previous record of 74 million units from the year-earlier quarter.

"The big debate among investors has been: Will Apple go ex-growth in the December quarter? We think it's unlikely, as we expect Apple to ship 75 million to 80 million iPhone units in the December quarter," Daryanani said in a research note Friday.

A data point that gives him conviction for his prediction is the timing of the iPhone 6S launch. This year, Apple will have only two days of iPhone 6S sales in the September quarter vs. 9 days of new iPhone revenue in the year-ago period.

"This will essentially drive an extra week of high unit sales in the December quarter this year," he said. "At minimum, given the extended lead times for 6S Plus, this should add 2 million to 2.5 million incremental units in the December quarter ($1.5 billion to $2 billion in revenue)."

RBC is modeling for Apple to sell 45.2 million iPhones in the September quarter, up 15% year over year. It sees Apple selling 76 million units in the December quarter, up 2%. RBC also predicts modest growth in iPhone unit sales for the next two quarters in 2016.

Daryanani rates Apple stock as outperform with a price target of 150.

On Thursday, Pacific Crest Securities analyst Andy Hargreaves said near-term expectations for iPhone sales are "unrealistically high."

The iOS 9 Software Crashes

A significant number of Apple customers are reporting that their mobile devices have crashed after attempting to install the new iOS 9 operating system, Reuters reported Friday.

Disgruntled Apple iPhone and iPad users have taken to social media to complain about their experiences with the new operating system, which was released Wednesday.

Research firm Statista said iOS crash reports jump whenever Apple releases a new version of its mobile operating system.