Ladies love their Fitbit (NYSE:FIT) fitness trackers. That's the not-so-surprising finding of a study released Tuesday by Piper Jaffray. Fitbit is the runaway market share leader in the fitness band category among women, according to Piper Jaffray's fifth semi-annual women's survey. Of all female fitness band users, 68% said they prefer Fitbit, up from 65% last spring.

Nike (NYSE:NKE) and Jawbone came in a distant second and third place, with 6% mindshare each.

Meanwhile, interest in fitness bands continues to rise. Some 18% of women surveyed own a fitness band, up from 12% in the spring. More importantly, 19% intend to buy one in the next six months, up from 11% last spring, Piper Jaffray said. For its latest report, Piper Jaffray surveyed 1,050 women across the U.S.

Piper Jaffray analyst Erinn Murphy reiterated her overweight rating on Fitbit stock with a price target of 60. Fitbit rose 3.3% to 33.04 on the stock market today.

Meanwhile, ownership of smartwatches, such as the Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) Watch, is growing among women. Some 8% of women surveyed said they own a smartwatch, up from a mere 3% in the spring. Intent to purchase a smartwatch rose to 13%, compared with 8% six months ago, Piper Jaffray said.

When asked to pick a preferred brand for smartwatches, 42% of women said Apple, followed by Samsung (19%) and Fitbit (9%).

Pacific Crest Securities analyst Brad Erickson initiated coverage of Fitbit stock Monday with an overweight rating and price target of 47.

"The business is growing ridiculously fast, margin expectations are depressed, and we like Fitbit's opportunities beyond consumer in corporate wellness channels," Erickson said in a report.

Apple is a competitive risk for Fitbit, but so far concerns look overblown, he said.

"The primary risk (to Fitbit) is if Apple were to enter the fitness monitoring space directly," Erickson said. "Apple's current presence in fitness watches doesn't represent a risk to Fitbit, in our view, and in the absence of a product launch from Apple, we think Fitbit's growth can exceed expectations, with competitive concerns likely proving overdone at current levels."

Meanwhile, Baird analyst William Power on Tuesday reiterated his outperform rating on Fitbit stock with a price target of 54.

"We remain positive on the growth opportunity, driven by secular trends and expanding distribution domestically and internationally," Power said in a report.

Nike holds a high IBD Composite Rating of 97 out of a possible 99, while Fitbit has an 82 and Apple a 79.

RELATED:

Smart wearables, led by Apple Watch, to pass basic wearables.