Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), which is reportedly speeding up efforts to roll out an electric car by 2019, could hit some potholes in the self-driving auto market, says a Goldman Sachs report.

The first Apple-branded electric car will not be self-driving, according to a Wall Street Journal report Monday. But an autonomous car is part of Apple's long-range plans, says the report.

Apple has been on a hiring spree for the electric car project, code-named Titan, said the WSJ.

Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL), meanwhile, is well along on efforts to develop self-driving cars and has tested them on some streets near its Mountain View, Calif., headquarters.

But Patrick Archambault, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, cast doubt on the success of Apple and Google in the car market in a report released Thursday.

"The answer to autonomous investing is not Apple," wrote Archambault, who says the auto business is much different than the smartphone market.

"The business of physically building cars is a difficult one which is extremely capital intensive and requires the manufacturers to take on extensive contingent liabilities for products that last more than 20 years," he wrote. "While Apple has typically pursued an 'asset-light' approach to device manufacturing, leveraging others to do the assembly, in the case of the autos these subcontractors will require a return on these substantial capital investments and need to be compensated for warranty and other liabilities, which could make it difficult for Apple to participate without diluting margins."

Israel-based Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY), a maker of camera-based ADAS (advanced driver assistance systems) software, is among Archambault's top stock picks in the auto market.

As for Google, Archambault says it's likely to find a manufacturing partner.

"In the case of Google, we believe the focus is more about increasing its presence on the software side of the vehicle by producing industry-leading autonomous capability, and that the company would leave the device design and production to capable partners, like it does with Samsung for handsets."

Some reports have linked Apple to BMW as a possible partner.