If Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone Upgrade Program catches on, it could make the company's smartphone business more like an annuity and less dependent on hit new handsets to drive sales, UBS analyst Steven Milunovich said Tuesday.

If Apple were priced as an annuity business, the stock could be worth over $200 a share, Milunovich said. He has a price target of 150 on the stock because customer use of the Upgrade Program likely will occur gradually.

Investor perception about the improving growth and consistency of iPhone revenue should benefit the stock, Milunovich said in a report.

Apple was up a fraction to about 116 in afternoon trading in the stock market today.

"The iPhone Upgrade Program could be a big deal: (1) customers should upgrade more often, boosting revenue even taking into account more used phones hitting the market; and (2) the iPhone begins to look more like an annuity and less like a hits business," Milunovich said. "The result could be both higher EPS and a better multiple as iPhone revenue becomes more sustainable."

Apple management will discuss the accounting impacts of the Upgrade Program on its September quarter earnings call next month.

Apple's decision to enter the mobile phone financing business last week could put pressure on wireless carriers such as AT&T (NYSE:T) and Verizon (NYSE:VZ). Apple will build a stronger relationship with wireless customers and could play the carriers against each other, Morgan Stanley said in a report.

Apple will offer monthly installment plans for iPhone purchases similar to those offered by wireless carriers. With the iPhone Upgrade Program, customers can get a new iPhone every year with 24-month plans starting at $32 a month.

Apple announced the new installment plans when it unveiled its iPhone 6S and 6S Plus handsets last Wednesday. The new smartphones go on sale in retail stores on Sept. 25.

On Monday, Apple said it is "on pace" to beat the first-weekend sales record (10 million units) set last year by the iPhone 6 smartphones. The iPhone 6S series phones were made available for preorder on Saturday in 12 countries.

Exceeding last year's first-weekend iPhone sales record should be achievable because China is among the launch countries this year, said RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani in a note Monday.

Daryanani rates Apple stock as outperform with a price target of 150.

China is getting the latest iPhone three weeks earlier this year. However, first-weekend preorders for the iPhone 6S series phones in China appear to be 20% to 30% weaker than iPhone 6 preorders, Rosenblatt Securities said in a report Tuesday.

RELATED:

Rose gold iPhone, Live Photos could draw Apple upgraders.