So far, 2015 has proven to be an unusual year. The stock market has gone virtually nowhere in 12 months, bonds yields are actually well off their highs for the year despite a looming rate hike from the Federal Reserve, and crude oil prices have fallen at a pace last seen during the 2008 meltdown.

See Also: Kiplinger's Economic Outlooks

The market will continue to keep us all guessing. That’s what markets do best.

But I’m going to hazard 10 predictions for the remainder of 2015 covering everything from crude oil prices to the Spanish unemployment rate and everything in between.

Some of these are contrarian calls well outside of the mainstream. But as 2015 has trained us to expect the unexpected, I believe them to be the right calls.

Advertisement

1. The Fed Raises Rates Once…and Then Stops. This has been the most telegraphed Fed tightening in history. In fact, you could argue it started more than two years ago, in May of 2013, when Ben Bernanke, then the Fed Chair, first started making noise about tapering his quantitative easing program. And, once quantitative easing was tapered out of existence, it was only a matter of time before the focus shifted to “liftoff” from the zero-interest-rate policy (“ZIRP”) that has been in place since the dark days of the financial crisis.

Fed Chair Janet Yellen has been talking the good talk about raising the Fed Funds rate for most of 2015, so none of us can act surprised when she finally does it either next month or in December.

But, here’s the thing: She waited too long. It has been more than six years since the last recession. In the entire span of U.S. history since the Great Depression, the longest stretch we’ve ever gone without a recession was 10 years — and that was during the 1990s tech boom. Since the Great Depression, the average time between recessions was four years and nine months.

So, while this doesn’t mean a recession is necessarily around the corner, we’re certainly due for a slowdown, and a lot of the economic data of the past few months has been tepid at best. GDP growth is sluggish, and inflation is dead on arrival. None of this is a recipe for aggressive Fed rate hiking.

The Fed really wants to raise rates. They want to give themselves room to lower rates next time we have a recession. But they don’t want to cause a recession in the process, so I expect a rate hike of no more than 0.25% to 0.50%, making this the shortest tightening cycle in history.

2. Bond Yields Finish the Year Lower. This is a contrarian view, to say the least. “Everyone” expects bond yields to rise through the remainder of this year and beyond. But falling yields are consistent with my view that the U.S. economy is due for a cooling. Our current economic expansion, which has been aided by the most aggressive central bank action in history, is looking long in the tooth. Yet, it never quite gathered enough speed to give us strong growth or to ignite the inflation the Fed was hoping to see.

Inflation is the single biggest worry for the bond market. Rising inflation means rising bond yields…and falling bond prices.

Well, the most recent 12-month consumer price inflation figures showed inflation of just 0.1%. Excluding food and energy, it was a more respectable 1.8%. But that’s still below the Fed’s target of 2.0%.

Until we see a sustained uptick in inflation, we’re not likely to see bond yields go much higher. But there are other factors at play, too. With the aging of the Baby Boomers, the hunt for yield, which has been a theme now for over a decade, is only going to intensify. And lower yields in Europe and Japan will put an anchor of sorts on U.S. bond yields.

And finally, there is precedent. Following its spectacular bubble and bust in the early 1990s, Japanese bond yields continued to drift lower--for 20 years and counting. So, anyone who tells you that bond yields “can’t go lower” or “can’t stay this low for long” clearly has never bothered to read a history book.

The views expressed are those of our contributing experts and did not involve the Kiplinger editorial staff.