ENLARGE Michael Horn at a Volkswagen event in Brooklyn, N.Y., last month. Photo: Kevin Hagen/Associated Press

Volkswagen AG VLKAY 0.47 % ’s U.S. chief Michael Horn brings a reputation for a friendly and levelheaded demeanor to an embarrassing admission of cheating on auto-emissions tests. But he isn’t expected to provide specifics when he faces lawmakers on Thursday on what at the German auto maker went wrong.

Mr. Horn likely will focus on re-establishing trust with lawmakers, regulators and consumers, said people close to the company. A 25-year Volkswagen veteran, he has been on the hot seat without showing impatience in the past. Volkswagen’s mainstream brand is losing U.S. market share and struggling to sell its cars here even as the market is at a decade-high.

Mr. Horn, 53 years old, took over a Volkswagen of America division that was in disarray in early 2014 and won the respect of a sprawling U.S. dealer base that had lost its tolerance for tone deaf company management. Dealers and associates say he is a straight shooter, blunt and honest even if it creates an awkward environment.

“Michael came from Wolfsburg [Volkswagen’s headquarters], so he knew the hallways, he had the respect of colleagues in Germany and previous leadership had struggled with that. He was very attentive to the common sense approach to why VW was failing to the facing competition and it was content and price,” said Alan Brown, chairman of Volkswagen’s national dealer council. “We felt like if we lost Michael, we would go backwards tremendously for 24 to 36 months.”

The trust he won garnered from U.S. dealers stood him in good stead after the Environmental Protection Agency disclosed Volkswagen’s diesel-emissions cheating scheme on Sept. 18. As rumors emerged that Mr. Horn would be among the executives to lose their job, retailers pushed back saying the U.S. chief wasn’t the problem.

In a late-September letter to trade publication, Automotive News, Volkswagen’s dealer council—representing 652 stores—wrote that Mr. Horn “has tirelessly fought for the North American market to correct the many missteps of prior management that has led to the recent decline in market share…Not only did he repair the flaws in the business model of North America, he repaired in a short time what most felt was impossible: trust between the dealers and Volkswagen.”

Mr. Horn inserted himself early in the scandal. On a Monday night in late September, three days after the cheating scheme became public, Mr. Horn took to a stage in New York to unveil Volkswagen’s 2016 Passat sedan. After a brief review of new features and upgrades, he was blunt about the company’s failing.

“Our company was dishonest with the EPA, and the California Air Resources Board, and with all of you,” Mr. Horn told dealers and news media at the glitzy event. “We’ve totally screwed up.”

Other executives had apologized, but had been vague about what they did wrong. Mr. Horn spoke to the issue that was on everyone’s mind, and said the company needed to make it right.

That candor may be on display with a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Thursday. But specific details will be hard to divulge because Volkswagen officials in Germany say a full investigation will take months to complete, although details will emerge in coming weeks. Volkswagen declined to make Mr. Horn available for an interview.

Volkswagen employs more than 3,200 at a plant in Tennessee, has a sales and marketing arm located outside Washington, D.C., and has operations in Michigan.

EPA officials are also expected to testify before the House panel. Christopher Grundler, head of the EPA’s office of transportation and air quality, will reiterate the agency’s plans to test diesel models from all other auto makers to search for defeat devices, according to his prepared testimony. Mr. Grundler’s statement said excess emissions from Volkswagen vehicles were serious enough to cause asthma and other conditions that can land people in the hospital.

Volkswagen said Wednesday it will in January launch a massive recall of its diesel-powered cars affected by its emissions test scandal. The recall is expected to be completed by the end of 2016.

A native of Hamburg, Germany, Mr. Horn is viewed as an company insider who ran Volkswagen’s aftermarket sales division globally before being tapped to take over running Volkswagen of America for Jonathan Browning last year.

Mr. Browning, an outsider with experience at other car companies, didn’t last long at Volkswagen. Mr. Horn also previously held the top sales position in Europe.

Auto dealers, frustrated with the previous leadership, warmed quickly to Mr. Horn, who delivered pointed criticisms back to Wolfsburg management about the failings in the U.S. market, including slow introductions of new vehicles, high prices and unrealistic sales goals. Martin Winterkorn, the now-departed chief executive officer, had set an 800,000-unit sales goal for Volkswagen in the U.S. by 2018, approximately triple the company’s U.S. sales.

When he took the reins in the U.S., Mr. Horn became a passionate advocate of granting the U.S. organization more autonomy. It took executives at headquarters in Wolfsburg so long to decide on new models or face-lifts, that Volkswagen missed the rise of small sport-utility vehicle and other trends in the U.S., analysts have said.

He is an influential voice in the current reorganization of Volkswagen of America, which new Chief Executive Matthias Müller said will in future be able to act as independently as brands like Audi and Porsche—both owned by Volkswagen.

Write to Mike Ramsey at michael.ramsey@wsj.com and William Boston at william.boston@wsj.com