DETROIT & BURBANK, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

Chevrolet and Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) today introduced a new digital comedy series starring actress/comedian Ana Gasteyer (“Saturday Night Live,” “Suburgatory”). "Going There with Ana Gasteyer" on Yahoo, which highlights the family-friendly features of the 2016 Chevrolet Traverse, is executive produced by Ellen DeGeneres. The series is from DeGeneres’ A Very Good Production in association with Warner Bros.’ shortform digital studio Blue Ribbon Content.

Debuting at https://goingthere.yahoo.com, the show stars Gasteyer and a number of her friends from the world of comedy in a series of candid — and hilarious — conversations which present an honest and revealing take on parenting, as they run errands and try to complete their never-ending “to-do” lists together in a Chevrolet Traverse. "Going There with Ana Gasteyer" is a nine episode video series on Yahoo, with a new episode debuting weekly. The series will also be accessible through the Yahoo Parenting digital magazine.

Gasteyer starred on Warner Bros. Television’s critically acclaimed ABC comedy “Suburgatory” and is perhaps best known for her incomparable work during a six-year stint on “Saturday Night Live,” where she created a number of original characters and also delivered spot-on impressions of Martha Stewart, Celine Dion and Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Some of the celebrity guests appearing on “Going There with Ana Gasteyer” include Gasteyer’s former “Saturday Night Live” castmate Maya Rudolph, Jenna Fischer of “The Office,” Jessica St. Clair of “Playing House” and the movie “Bridesmaids,” and many more. The show will feature many autobiographical elements, with Gasteyer drawing inspiration from her real-life experiences with her two children, ages 13 and 7.

Ana Gasteyer said, “I wanted to do this show because the only thing better than driving around with a friend dishing about parenthood is doing it in a clean vehicle with buttons that still work.”

Episode storylines feature everyday situations such as ordering groceries online through the Traverse’s OnStar 4G LTE with Wi-Fi or finding decorations for a children’s birthday party. As the show sponsor, Chevrolet will leverage advertising on Yahoo, as well as syndication of the videos to more broadly share this content. Yahoo will also produce additional content featuring interviews with celebrity guests, as well as moms and dads of all stripes, on topics of interest to parents for the “Going There with Ana Gasteyer” site.

“The Chevrolet Traverse is a midsize SUV tailored to the needs of parents,” said Steve Majoros, Chevrolet marketing director. “This web series focuses on many of the premier features of the vehicle that were designed with families in mind, while entertaining viewers with some truly universal humor.”

The new 2016 Chevrolet Traverse is the ideal vehicle for the series. Making the list for the Best Family Cars of 2015 by Parents magazine, Traverse ranks high in safety features, provides class-leading cargo space and offers technology such as OnStar 4G LTE with a built-in Wi-Fi hotspot.

“Working with Chevrolet, we’re bringing this unique and entertaining video series to viewers on Yahoo,” said Lisa Utzschneider, Chief Revenue Officer, Yahoo. “It’s really exciting to bring such a talented group of people together. ‘Going There with Ana Gasteyer’ will truly make people laugh and think about their own relationships with their families and their vehicles.”

For a trailer, behind-the-scenes content and more, please visit https://goingthere.yahoo.com.

The series was created by Libby Silverman and Blue Ribbon Content’s Zoe Friedman. Ellen DeGeneres and Jeff Kleeman are executive producers; Ana Gasteyer is a producer.

About Chevrolet

Founded in 1911 in Detroit, Chevrolet is now one of the world's largest car brands, doing business in more than 115 countries and selling around 4.8 million cars and trucks a year. Chevrolet provides customers with fuel-efficient vehicles that feature engaging performance, design that makes the heart beat, passive & active safety features and easy-to-use technology, all at a value. More information on Chevrolet models can be found at www.chevrolet.com.

About Yahoo

Yahoo is a guide focused on informing, connecting, and entertaining our users. By creating highly personalized experiences for our users, we keep people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the world. In turn, we create value for advertisers by connecting them with the audiences that build their businesses. Yahoo is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, and has offices located throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC) and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. For more information, visit the pressroom (pressroom.yahoo.net) or the Company’s blog (yahoo.tumblr.com).

About A Very Good Production

A Very Good Production (AVGP) is the Emmy®-winning television and film production company of producer/writer/actor/host Ellen DeGeneres. Based at Warner Bros. Television Group (WBTVG) with an exclusive multiyear deal, AVGP produces the nationally syndicated daytime talk program The Ellen DeGeneres Show and develops television projects for all divisions of WBTVG, including scripted and unscripted primetime series for network and cable, as well as additional syndicated fare. AVGP’s slate of television projects includes the upcoming animated family comedy Green Eggs and Ham for Netflix; the forthcoming unscripted variety/comedy series Little Big Shots and unscripted relationship series First Dates for NBC; the unscripted design competition program Ellen’s Design Challenge for HGTV; Heads Up!, a fast-paced game show debuting in 2016 on HLN and based on the wildly popular game and app of the same name from The Ellen DeGeneres Show; and Hello Goodbye, an unscripted series debuting on the Travel Channel highlighting heart-warming — and sometimes heart-wrenching — stories of love, sorrow, family and friendship from travelers of all cultures and walks of life. Jeff Kleeman serves as President of A Very Good Production.

About Blue Ribbon Content

Formed in 2014, Blue Ribbon Content is Warner Bros.’ shortform series production unit, charged with developing and producing live-action series for digital platforms, tapping the creative talent already working at the Studio while also identifying opportunities for collaboration with new writers and producers. In addition to live-action programming, BRC produces animated content and is also experimenting with emerging platforms such as virtual reality. BRC programs include Going There with Ana Gasteyer for Yahoo, Vixen for CW Seed, Justice League: Gods and Monsters Chronicles for Machinima and the Batman: The Animated Series virtual reality experience, with OTOY Inc., among others. For more information, visit www.blueribboncontent.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151005005605/en/