ENLARGE Volkswagen is due to submit proposed fixes for its diesel engines to German authorities this week. Photo: Getty Images

FRANKFURT— Volkswagen AG VLKAY 0.47 % plans to slash an €86 billion ($96 billion) investment plan and step up cost-cutting as it grapples with fallout from its emissions scandal, Chief Executive Matthias Müller said on Tuesday.

Volkswagen’s management is still unsure how high the price tag will be for “diesel gate,” as investors are calling the scandal. But Mr. Müller is worried that the fallout from the crisis may be so severe that it hurts the company’s ability to compete globally.

“This won’t be painless,” Mr. Müller warned about 20,000 factory workers who gathered at the company’s main facility in Wolfsburg. “That’s why we’re putting all planned investments under review. What isn’t essential will be scrapped or postponed.”

He didn’t say when the review would be complete. The meeting with workers came a day before Volkswagen’s supervisory board was set to appoint Hans Dieter Pötsch, a board member and the company’s finance chief, as chairman of the supervisory board.

Volkswagen is due to submit proposed fixes to its diesel-engines to German authorities on Wednesday and on Thursday, Michael Horn, CEO of Volkswagen of America, will testify before a congressional hearing on the VW emissions scandal.

The board meeting on Wednesday will discuss an interim report on the investigation into the emissions scandal, Mr. Müller said.

“We still don’t have answers for a lot of questions,” he said, adding: “But the picture is getting clearer day by day.”

The spending review seeks to whittle down a five-year capital spending budget that the company approved in November. The original plan earmarked tens of billions of dollars to build new factories, pump out dozens of new car models and develop new technologies such as electric vehicles, self-driving cars and cars connect to the Internet.

Nearly €65 billion of the total spending through 2019 was for the automotive division, part of Volkswagen’s campaign to drive past Toyota Motor Corp. TM 1.24 % and General Motors Co. GM 0.00 % and dominate sales in the global automotive industry.

Now that plan is on hold as the company hunkers down to confront what its most senior executives are calling an existential crisis and reorders its strategic priorities in the face of tighter finances.

In a first step to address the potential costs of the crisis, Volkswagen last month issued a profit warning and said it would take a €6.5 billion charge to earnings to pay for repairing up to 11 million vehicles affected by the emissions scam.

“But that won’t be enough,” Mr. Müller said in Wolfsburg, giving a strong indication that the company could soon announce further provisions against earnings.

Volkswagen, Europe’s largest auto maker, employs about 600,000 people world-wide, almost half of whom work in Germany.

The question on the minds of the workers listening from the shop floor is whether the misconduct of some managers would cost ordinary factory workers their jobs.

Bernd Osterloh, the head of Volkswagen’s works council and a member of the company’s supervisory board, sought to assure workers that job cuts weren't being discussed.

Executive bonuses will come under scrutiny, Mr. Osterloh said at Tuesday’s gathering. But Volkswagen employees shouldn’t have “to pick up the tab for the wrongdoing of a group of managers,” he said.

ENLARGE Newly appointed Volkswagen CEO Matthias Müller told workers the auto maker will try to limit any impact on jobs. Photo: Associated Press

Mr. Müller isn’t the only one trying to gauge the financial impact of the crisis. Investors have pounded Volkswagen’s shares, which have fallen more than 40% since it emerged on Sept. 18 that the company had lied to U.S. environmental authorities about smog-causing emissions from some of its diesel-powered cars.

Now, analysts are trying to figure out if they have factored all the potential pain into their estimates. The impact on Volkswagen’s finances will come from a combination of sources—fines and compensation, recall costs, the impact on car prices, as well as higher borrowing costs.

Volkswagen could face up to €15 billion in legal costs through 2016 in the U.S. and Europe and another €10 billion in costs to fix affected vehicles, according to estimates by Stuart Pearson, an automotive analyst with Exane BNP Paribas.

He expects that pricing on Volkswagen’s best-selling brands—Volkswagen Skoda, and Seat—will suffer and the group will lose market share in the U.S. and Europe. Luxury brands Audi NSU 1.23 % and Porsche, and the company’s truck business, aren’t likely to suffer, he said.

The company’s lending business is likely to see a drop in pretax profit caused by higher borrowing costs due to widening credit spreads as ratings firms put the company on their “negative watch” list.

Selling assets, though, could offset some of these costs. Volkswagen is planning to sell shares in Suzuki Motor Corp. 7269 2.53 % and its stake in the leasing and fleet management company LeasePlan Corporation NV. Mr. Stuart estimates that those two sales alone could generation about €5 billion in cash in the second half of this year.

The problem that Mr. Müller faces is that he doesn’t know what the final impact will be. He needs to bolster the company against an undefined financial risk, but also has to ensure Volkswagen continues to invest in its businesses so not to fall behind rivals.

“We have to massively cut costs in order to handle the consequences of this crisis,” he told the workers in Wolfsburg. “But we can’t allow ourselves to sacrifice our future through cost savings.”

Write to William Boston at william.boston@wsj.com and Sarah Sloat at sarah.sloat@wsj.com