VW’s top U.S. executive told lawmakers he didn’t know or suspect in 2014 that the German auto maker was using ‘defeat-device’ software to evade emissions tests.

WASHINGTON— Volkswagen AG VLKAY 0.47 % ’s top U.S. executive apologized for a yearslong deception but rejected suggestions there was a broad conspiracy at the German auto maker to cheat on diesel-emissions tests, instead pointing to rogue engineers as likely culprits in the scandal.

Michael Horn, head of Volkswagen Group of America, said during a congressional hearing on Thursday that he believed “a couple of software engineers” were responsible for software that allowed nearly a half million diesel-powered cars sold in the U.S. since 2008 to dupe emissions tests.

“To my understanding this was not a corporate decision,” Mr. Horn said during a contentious U.S. House subcommittee hearing. “This was something individuals did.”

Volkswagen's admission that is used software to manipulate the results of emission testing to sidestep pollution standards in millions of cars has rocked the automaker. And the figures involved are pretty staggering. WSJ's Dipti Kapadia explains the scandal in numbers. Photo: Getty Images

In what has become a familiar scene with past auto industry executives, House members challenged a contrite Mr. Horn to provide a detailed account of what happened and who was involved, while the soft-spoken auto executive said an investigation is ongoing and a fuller picture would take some time to emerge.

House Republicans and Democrats alike decried Volkswagen’s long running deception with defeat-device software that made the auto makers’ diesel cars run cleaner during emissions testing than they did on the road.

ENLARGE

Several lawmakers suggested Volkswagen’s deception represented a pattern of wrongdoing by the auto industry, citing Capitol Hill appearances by General Motors Co., Takata Corp. 7312 2.42 % and Toyota Motor Corp. TM 1.24 % , executives over deadly safety problems that weren’t quickly fixed. Toyota appeared before U.S. lawmakers in 2010 amid questions over unintended acceleration in cars while GM and Takata executives faced congressional hearings over the past two years for lapses with faulty ignition switches and rupturing air bags, respectively.

“We’re here because Volkswagen lied,” said Rep. Frank Pallone (D., N.J.), adding the emissions-cheating scandal affected his trust in all auto makers. “This seems to be a pervasive culture of deception in the auto industry and it has to stop now.”

Mr. Horn emphasized he was unaware of the cheating on U.S. tests despite hearing about emissions-compliance problems as early as spring 2014. The 53-year-old auto executive said he was told engineers and regulators were working to solve the problem.

He said he was told the Environmental Protection Agency and California regulators could check for defeat devices but he didn’t know Volkswagen was using such software. “I was not then told, nor did I have any reason to suspect or to believe, that our vehicles included such a device,” Mr. Horn said.

A West Virginia University research team in spring 2014 found higher than allowed nitrogen oxides emissions in two Volkswagen cars. “At that point of time, I had no understanding of what a defeat device was,” Mr. Horn said.

Mr. Horn said he didn’t learn that defeat devices were used until a couple of days before a Sept. 3 meeting where Volkswagen officials gave a presentation to regulators detailing their use.

Lawmakers demanded quick fixes for dealers and consumers. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D., Ill.) said all U.S. owners of affected diesel models should receive full refunds if requested.

Car makers woo customers with promises of speed, acceleration and braking distance. Less appealing is the increasingly important element that helps them deliver that performance: software. Robert Wall explains how car software can be used to rig a test. Photo: AP

Mr. Horn ruled out buying back vehicles from dealers. He said the cars are legal and safe to drive. Volkswagen is focused on repairs, hoping to have a fix available next year, he added. A timetable for a U.S. recall isn’t yet set.

Christopher Grundler, head of the EPA’s office of transportation and air quality, told lawmakers Volkswagen could propose fixes for some diesel models as soon as next week.

Mr. Horn, in response to a question, said the cheating scandal may have been triggered by “pressure in the system to get resolutions and also in conjunction with cost pressure as well.”

Volkswagen suspended three employees over the scandal in recent weeks, people familiar with the matter have said. They are Ulrich Hackenberg, Audi NSU 1.23 % ’s chief engineer; Wolfgang Hatz, a developer of racing engines; and Heinz-Jakob Neusser, head of development at the Volkswagen brand.

Mr. Horn on Thursday confirmed three employees were suspended but said he couldn’t reveal their names due to German law. A Volkswagen spokesman declined to confirm the suspensions.

On Thursday, German prosecutors raided Volkswagen offices and private homes, seizing documents and data storage devices that may shed light on who was involved in the engine software and any alterations to it.

The prosecutors gave no further details.

Volkswagen has so far set aside $7.3 billion to address the problem. Current Chief Executive Matthias Müller has said the cost will likely rise.

In Germany, Sigmar Gabriel, German economy minister and vice chancellor, echoed U.S. lawmakers in advising Volkswagen to be completely open about the affair and quickly repair the damage.

“My only advice is to clear this up very quickly,” Mr. Gabriel, leader of the left-leaning Social Democrats, said on Thursday in Wolfsburg, Germany, after a meeting with Volkswagen’s top labor representatives.

“The company must disclose what happened. The more aggressively it does this, the better it will be,” Mr. Gabriel said.

The auto industry is Germany’s biggest single industry and central to its economy, accounting for one in seven jobs. Mr. Gabriel said the nation’s industry as a whole shouldn’t suffer on account of Volkswagen’s actions without proof that the misconduct is more widespread.

In Washington, D.C., Mr. Horn said fixing all affected vehicles could take years. He also said Volkswagen had provided significant funds to U.S. dealers ordered to stop selling the affected vehicles, but didn’t provide a figure.

—William Boston in Berlin contributed to this article.

Write to Mike Spector at mike.spector@wsj.com and Amy Harder at amy.harder@wsj.com