Apple has reportedly inked a deal to build a massive second spaceship-like campus in Silicon Valley.

The 18-acre Central & Wolfe campus—so named because of the roads that border it in Sunnyvale—contains 770,000 square feet of potential office space. Though the deal has not been confirmed, the Silicon Valley Business Journal reports the transaction has been completed. It’s likely Apple has leased, not purchased, the property, and it’s still unclear when construction will begin.

Apple is also in the middle of constructing a futuristic 2.8-million-square-foot campus adjacent to its current headquarters in Cupertino. Designed to house 13,000 employees, the campus will be anchored by a four-story circular structure with extensive glass panes—hence the spaceship nickname. The notoriously secretive company also plans to build a visitors’ center with an observation deck and retail store.

Below are the renderings of the proposed Sunnyvale campus. It borrows the curvaceous elements of the Cupertino design, with three six-story wings centered around a courtyard.

The proposal for Apple’s LEED Platinum Sunnyvale campus includes extensive landscaping, rooftop solar panels, and paths for cyclists and pedestrians. (Landbank Investments)

The Sunnyvale site today, left, and proposal for Apple’s campus. (Landbank Investments)

The building will be designed so that all employees will be within 45 feet of a window, natural lighting, or view of nature, according to the proposal. (Landbank Investments)

Reclaimed water will irrigate the landscaping. (Landbank Investments)

The proposal includes a central courtyard, as well as fields, courts, and an outdoor amphitheater. (Landbank Investments)

The roof can provide up to 90,000 square feet of green space. (Landbank Investments)

The view from the campus’s border on Arques Ave. (Landbank Investments)

The view from the campus’s border on Wolfe Road. (Landbank Investments)

Except for 12 spots, almost all 2,500 parking stalls will be underground. (Landbank Investments)