DUBLIN--(BUSINESSWIRE)--

– Eight New Commercial Executives Hired and Five New Offices Opened in Dallas, Dubai, Hong Kong, Sao Paulo, and Singapore –

Milestone Aviation Group, a GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) company headquartered in Dublin and the global leader in helicopter leasing, announced today that it has expanded its commercial team with eight newly hired executives and increased its international presence in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America.

Milestone has enhanced its global rotary market presence by opening five new offices in Dallas, Dubai, Hong Kong, Sao Paulo and Singapore in addition to its long-standing office in Columbus and its headquarters in Dublin. The expansion aims to get Milestone closer to its customers to serve them better.

“We view this investment in our team and enhancement of our global reach as differentiating factors that enable us to serve customers better, seize even greater opportunities, and further diversify our business both geographically and vertically,” said Milestone President Daniel Rosenthal.

Milestone’s global commercial organization is now structured into two regional components: Europe & the Americas; and Emerging Markets. Under the new organizational structure, Walter Horsting has assumed the role of Senior Vice President, Commercial – Europe & Americas, and Jonty Nel, who joins Milestone from GECAS, assumes the role of Senior Vice President, Commercial – Emerging Markets. Horsting and Nel report directly to Executive Vice President, Commercial, Robert Thor Dranitzke.

“Our expanded team will improve the customized service and financing solutions we offer to our customers,” said Dranitzke. “The addition of these eight senior aviation executives will further drive our marketing efforts by helping us get even closer to our customers to better understand their needs and build stronger relationships and partnerships.”

In addition to Mr. Nel, the new hires include a talented team of seven senior executives with extensive experience at helicopter manufacturers, helicopter operators, oil companies, and O&G consulting groups, as well as over 35 years combined experience in military aviation. These executives will report to Messrs. Horsting and Nel, and have responsibility for defined geographies within the two regions.

Europe and the Americas

Vice President Commercial, Continental Europe: Sebastien Moulin

Vice President Commercial, Northern Europe & Canada: John Parnell

Vice President Commercial, Latin America & Caribbean: Francois Arnaud

Vice President Commercial, United States: Scott Fitzgerald

Emerging Markets

Vice President Commercial, Northern Asia & Russia: Stephanie Tovoli

Vice President Commercial, Southern Asia Pacific & Central Asia Brett Rankin

Vice President Commercial, Turkey, India, Middle East, Africa: Michael York

About Milestone Aviation Group

Milestone Aviation Group, a GE Capital Aviation Services Company, is the world’s leading commercial helicopter leasing company. Milestone has a fleet of 191 helicopters worth US $3.4 billion and supports 33 operators in 27 countries on six continents. The company has a forward order book of 154 firm and option aircraft with an estimated aggregate purchase price of US $3.2 billion. These near-term delivery positions of in-demand helicopters are made available for lease globally. Milestone partners with helicopter operators worldwide and supports them through lease and debt financing. The company provides financing for helicopters serving a variety of industries, including offshore oil and gas, search and rescue, emergency medical services, police surveillance, mining and other utility missions. www.milestoneaviation.com

About GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS)

GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) is a world leader in aviation leasing and financing. With over 45 years of experience, GECAS offers a wide range of aircraft types including narrow-bodies, wide-bodies, regional jets, turboprops, freighters and helicopters, plus multiple financing products and services including operating leases, purchase/leasebacks, secured debt financing, capital markets, engine leasing, airframe parts management and airport/airline consulting. GECAS owns or services a fleet of over 2,150 aircraft (~1,840 fixed wing/ ~310 rotary wing) in operation or on order, plus provides loans collateralized on an additional ~400 aircraft. GECAS serves over 270 customers in over 75 countries from a network of 25 offices. (www.gecas.com)

GE (NYSE: GE) imagines things others don’t, builds things others can’t and delivers outcomes that make the world work better. GE brings together the physical and digital worlds in ways no other company can. In its labs and factories and on the ground with customers, GE is inventing the next industrial era to move, power, build and cure the world. (www.ge.com)

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150930006049/en/

Media:

Kekst and Company

Eric Berman / Nathan Riggs

+1-212-521-4894 / +1-212-521-4804

eric-berman@kekst.com / nathan-riggs@kekst.com