General Electric Co. punctuated its comeback from the depths of the recession by rallying to a seven-year high, buoyed by a quarterly profit that underscored the company’s pivot back toward manufacturing and away from finance.

“There’s this groundswell,” said Nicholas Heymann, a William Blair & Co. analyst who upgraded GE to outperform from market perform this week. “People realize that instead of talking about what’s going to happen, GE is making it occur much faster than expected.”

The third-quarter results capped a quarter of dramatic portfolio reshaping, with Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt shrinking GE Capital and beefing up the divisions making products such as jet engines and locomotives. GE agreed to divest billions of dollars in GE Capital assets, and is now poised to close “within weeks” on its 8.5 billion-euro ($9.64 billion) acquisition of Alstom SA’s energy business.

GE rose 3.4 percent to $28.98 in New York. That was the highest closing price since Sept. 8, 2008, a week before the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that helped send global markets into chaos and dragged GE to a low of $6.66 in March 2009. With Friday’s rally, GE is up 15 percent this year, outpacing the 1.3 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.

Share Exchange

A long-expected share exchange in Synchrony Financial is set to start next week, GE said, as the company sheds a majority stake in GE Capital’s former North American retail finance unit. Finishing the split-off will help position GE Capital to apply in the first quarter to drop its federal designation as a systemically important financial institution.

Proceeds from Synchrony should be $18 billion to $21 billion, GE said. That could produce a buyback of as many as 750 million shares, the company said.

GE said adjusted profit was $2.9 billion, excluding portions of the lending unit set for divestiture. The per-share figure of 29 cents topped the 26-cent average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue of $27.9 billion missed analysts’ average estimate of $28.6 billion.

Segment Revenue

Revenue in the oil and gas unit fell 16 percent, while health-care sales dropped 5 percent. Sales increased 5 percent in the aviation division and 3 percent in transportation.

“We’re a long-term player in oil and gas,” Immelt said on a conference call with analysts and investors. “We like the industry, we’re committed to the industry.”

For 2015, earnings in the manufacturing units will be $1.13 to $1.20 a share, GE said, reaffirming an earlier forecast. Immelt said GE may finish toward the high end of that range if the sale of the appliance unit to Sweden’s Electrolux AB goes through. The U.S. Justice Department has filed an antitrust suit to block the deal.

Appliance Outlook

“We still expect appliances to close in the quarter,” Immelt said on the call. “I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t.”

Immelt’s strategic shifts gained additional urgency this month after Nelson Peltz’s activist investment firm Trian Fund Management LP disclosed a $2.5 billion stake in GE. While supporting the GE Capital divestitures, Trian said it wants to see Immelt follow through on the plan and other efforts to boost margins.

The Synchrony share exchange is the latest in a series of moves to shrink GE Capital, which was once so large it imperiled the parent company during the financial crisis. This week, GE agreed to sell $32 billion of lending assets to Wells Fargo & Co., adding to a series of deals during the third quarter and bringing the agreed-upon disposals this year to $126 billion.

With a smaller lending business, GE Capital’s third-quarter sales fell 1 percent.