Volkswagen's overhaul in response to the diesel emissions standard moves forward Friday with the meeting of a 20-person supervisory board to vote on a new Chief Executive Officer. Bloomberg

The VW logo is photographed at the company's headquarters at the Volkswagen plant in Wolfsburg, Germany. (Photo: Ferdinand Ostrop, AP)

Incoming Volkswagen CEO Matthias Mueller, tapped Friday, must deal with a scandal involving rigged emissions tests on diesel cars that is sure to dominate his time for years to come.

Mueller, who was president of Volkswagen's Porsche brand, is sure to getting a lot of advice.

How to clean up the mess? Here is our five-step plan.

1. Purge the scoundrels. Mueller needs to become the surgeon who starts by removing the tumor — the culprits who perpetrated the fraud of adding software to 11 million diesel cars to have them meet emissions standards on the test stand, but not in the real world. That means a purge from the lowliest technician to the highest executive. It also means removing those who participated in the coverup that continually rebuffed regulators trying to unravel the mystery of why emissions differed between the test stand and the highway.

"This was blatantly unethical, and they knew it was unethical," says Sean Hannah, executive director of the Center for Leadership and Character at Wake Forest University School of Business. "There's only a few people the company who knew about this action."

2. Create "guiding principles." It's hard to create momentum without laying down a few hard-and-fast rules about how to proceed.

For instance, create a framework that judges every action by whether it is dealing in facts. "Speculation is a hand grenade, and lying is suicide," says Jason Vines, a longtime auto industry public relations executive who endured crises at Ford, Chrysler and Nissan. Don't let legal implications, such as worries about potential lawsuits, or financial considerations to get in the way, he says.

3. Don't ignore the product. VW is going be dragged down by multiple investigations on different continents, congressional hearings, class-actions lawsuits and other fallout from its massive admission of wrongdoing. It needs to remember that in the end, it's in the business to make great cars and sell them.

Volkswagen must keep focusing on affordable and reliable transportation above all else. It will lose if it stops paying attention to what's coming out of its factories. Mueller will need to pay attention to new fuel economy regulations, self-driving car technologies and the emergence of new competitors like Apple or Google, says Matt DeLorenzo, managing editor of Kelley Blue Book.

4. Rethink diesels. Volkswagen has become as intertwined with diesels as Toyota has with hybrids. Its message has been simple: Diesels deliver more power and better fuel economy with only a modest price premium over gas engines. Now that it has seriously wounded its diesel reputation in the U.S., it is the perfect time for Volkswagen to pivot and look to other fuel-saving technologies on which to rebuild its reputation for fastidious German engineering.

It won't be easy: About a quarter of VW's sales in the U.S. are diesels. Diesel cars rule Europe, where diesel fuel is cheaper than gasoline.

5. Tap into warm feelings for VW. Volkswagen starts out in a better place than most damaged brands since it has built a following of devoted customers over the years. Early fans had the original Beetle, which kicked sand in the face of Detroit's behemoths, and the more recent devotees are young geeks who loved VW's technology prowess and clean European design.

"The higher your reputation, the better your buffer," says Brad Hecht, vice president of research for the Reputation Institute. "You built up this reservoir of good feelings." Now VW needs to tap into that vein of nostalgic affection.

The downside? For companies held in general high regard, "you have to work twice as hard" to repair the damage, Hecht says. That, above all, will be VW's challenge.

Volkswagen faces a criminal probe and a grilling before hostile legislators in the United States over its emissions cheating scandal. The German car manufacturer is also being confronted with the wrath of its American customers, who feel betrayed. Newslook

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1KxUX0N