BioMed Realty Trust — BioMed will be acquired by Blackstone in an $8 billion cash deal worth $23.75 per share. That represents a 10 percent premium over Wednesday's closing price.

Anheuser-Busch InBev — The beer brewer issued a statement saying it was "surprised" by SABMiller's characterization of its takeover offer as "undervalued," noting that major SABMiller shareholder Altria Group supports the bid.

McDonald's — SunTrust began coverage on the restaurant chain with a "buy" rating, noting that the company's new CEO has a track record of successful organizational turnarounds.

Chipotle Mexican Grill — SunTrust also rated Chipotle a "buy" in new coverage, saying it has multiple ways to grow sales including marketing, online, and catering, and also points to a leveling out of commodity costs after substantial increases last year and the first part of this year.

Lumber Liquidators — The flooring retailer agreed to pay a $13.2 million dollar fine to resolve complaints involving importing illegally harvested timber. The case is unrelated to the investigation involving formaldehyde levels in the company's flooring, highlighted by a "60 Minutes" segment earlier this year.

EMC — The data storage products company is in advanced talks to be bought by computer maker Dell and private equity firm Silver Lake Partners, according to The Wall Street Journal. The paper said a deal could be reached within a week.

Fiat Chrysler — The automaker has reached a tentative agreement with the United Auto Workers Union on a four-year labor pact that averts a strike. This is the second agreement between the two parties, with the union rank and file having rejected the initial contract proposal in September.

Yum Brands — Credit Suisse upgraded Yum to "neutral" from "underperform," saying it now puts a higher probability on the idea that the restaurant chain operator will spin off its China operations.

Sanofi — Sanofi's Genzyme unit reported positive data from a long term study of its Lemtrada multiple sclerosis treatment.

Gannett — Gannett is buying Journal Media Group in a $280 million deal, with the USA Todaypublisher saying the deal would add about $450 million in revenue each year.

Sony — Sony cut the price of its PlayStation 4 videogame console in the U.S. and Canada by $50, effective Friday.

Diageo — The spirits maker may sell its beer division to brewer SABMiller, according to the New York Post. The paper said SABMiller could use such a deal to help it fend off a takeover attempt by rival brewer AB InBev.

General Electric — GE's outlook was cut to "negative" from "stable" by Standard & Poor's, following the acquisition of a $2.5 billion stake by Nelson Peltz's Trian Partners. S&P is concerned that GE is more likely to increase share buybacks by incurring more debt.

Deutsche Bank — The bank will report a $6.7 billion third quarter loss, and will either cut or skip remaining dividend payments this year.

Amazon.com — Amazon introduced a new business for handcrafted goods called Amazon Handmade, seen as a competitor to Etsy.

Questions? Comments? Email us at marketinsider@cnbc.com

