Seagate Technology Public Limited Company STX announced its preliminary results for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 yesterday. It expects lower revenues and margins in the quarter due to weaker-than-expected demand for the company’s 4TB and 6TB nearline HDD products. The company is scheduled to report its full first quarter results before the market opens on Oct 30.



Following the news, the company’s shares fell nearly 13.3% on the day.



Seagate now expects revenues to be $2.9 billion compared with $2.9 billion to $3.1 billion guided previously. Moreover, non-GAAP gross margin is anticipated to be 24% compared with its earlier forecast of 27%. The company cited weak demand for the guidance cut.



Further, operating expenses on a non-GAAP basis are anticipated to be nearly $500 million, lower than the earlier expectation of $515 million. Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments are projected to be approximately $1.9 billion at the end of the quarter. Also, for the forthcoming quarter cash flow from operations is projected to be roughly $800 million. During the quarter, Seagate redeemed roughly 20 million shares.



It expects unit shipments in the quarter to be roughly 47 million and maintain its market share at 40%.



Hard-disk drives (HDD) are primarily used by PCs from where Seagate derives the bulk of its revenues. It is the second largest manufacturer of HDDs in the U.S. with 40% market share. Therefore, the cannibalization of PCs by mobile devices will affect Seagate’s results.



According to the data released by Gartner in its Sep 2015 report, PC shipments (including premium ultramobiles) are expected to fall 7.3% to 291 million units in 2015, primarily due to the lack of device replacement and a strong dollar. The premium ultramobiles category includes tablets and clamshells such as Apple Inc.’s AAPL iPad and iPad mini, Google Inc.’s GOOGL Nexus 7 and Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5. The declining 2015 PC numbers indicate long-term weakness in PC HDDs as well, which remains an overhang on Seagate’s financials.



So the company is focusing on the enterprise side, where it could gain higher-margin business. Synergies from acquisitions and product innovations are the other growth catalysts. We believe that this will boost margins and reduce Seagate’s dependence on the PC market.



Moreover, the company should benefit from the strength in its hybrid drives. Also, Seagate’s cloud-based applications have attracted customers’ interest.



However, sluggish macroeconomic conditions, a flattish price environment and competition from Western Digital Corp. WDC and SanDisk Corp. remain the near-term headwinds.



Currently, Seagate carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy).

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report >>

Finance Trading

Personal Investing Ideas & Strategies

Seagate

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report