Volkswagen faces a criminal probe and a grilling before hostile legislators in the United States over its emissions cheating scandal. The German car manufacturer is also being confronted with the wrath of its American customers, who feel betrayed. Newslook

A Volkswagen dealership in Oakland. Dealers face lower sales in the wake of a scandal triggered by revelations that it manipulated its emissions tests in the United States. (Photo: JOHN G. MABANGLO, EPA)

The lawyers are circling, regulators are demanding answers and lost somewhere in the swirl of the firestorm around Volkswagen's emissions fiasco are car owners and the automaker's dealers.

Consumers have been left wondering how they got duped into buying diesel cars that were rigged to beat emissions standards, and just how and when the vehicles are going to be fixed.

Volkswagen's dealers are stuck with thousands of diesel cars they aren't allowed to sell and a raft of angry customers who they fear may blame them, not just the automaker, for the deception.

All of this is occurring at a company with a reputation for honesty, engineering prowess and — due to the original Beetle — humility. Volkswagen ranked 14th among global companies this year on the Reputation Institute list of most reputable companies and has placed in the top 15 for the past five years.

Now that reputation is in tatters. Volkswagen has admitted and apologized for rigging 11 million vehicles worldwide to be able to pass rigorous diesel emissions tests even as they belch far more smog-forming emissions when they are actually driven.

Volkswagen has told dealers not to sell the affected diesels and promised to fix the 482,000 diesel Passats, Jettas, Beetles and other models in the U.S. that will fall under an inevitable recall.

Jack Fitzgerald, whose Maryland-based Fitzgerald Auto Malls chain includes two VW dealers, says most customers aren't fully informed yet about the debacle, but he's already feeling the effects.

"We had a case where we sold one (a diesel VW) and we couldn't deliver it," he says.

He says he takes heart of public statements by Volkswagen that it's going to support its dealers through the crisis, including releasing them from sales quotas on certain vehicles.

Fitzgerald, an industry veteran who has weathered crises before under the various brands his chain sells, says at least compared with General Motors and its faulty ignition switches or Toyota and its unintended-acceleration debacle, there are no fatalities surrounding Volkswagen's shenanigans.

"It looks bad, but nobody died," he says. And he says that in the end, he doubts the various investigations will find wrongdoing at the top of Volkswagen's management. In resigning, CEO Martin Winterkorn reiterated that he knew nothing about the insertion of malicious software in diesel cars' emission systems.

Customers concerned about their diesel VWs should reach out their local dealers and talk to a lawyer, says Rosemary Shahan, president of Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety.

Contacting a dealer, even though no fix has yet been ordered, is a good way to make sure VW can find an owner when it comes time for the recall. "Don't count on VW being able to find you," she says.

But seeking legal advice is important because owners not only may feel duped into buying what VW termed a "clean diesel" that was, in fact, a dirty one, but also may not be happy with the resulting repair to make it perform in line with standards.

"The fix may affect the performance of the car," she says. "People are between a rock and a hard place. Most of the people who bought these cars are really into being green and clean. They are going to feel the difference in performance."

Former Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn is likely to receive a $32 million pension after leaving the automaker amid the diesel emissions scandal. Bloomberg's Anders Melin examines the payout. Bloomberg

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Fj14Hc