NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Nearly a year after Apple (AAPL - Get Report) first launched its mobile wallet in the U.S., it seems that a release in China could be quickly approaching, but Apple Pay faces some new hurdles and challenges in this new geography that may translate into a tougher battle.

Talk of Apple's interest in getting into mobile payments in China first surfaced in May when Chinese news agency reported that Apple CEO Tim Cook was speaking to both Alibaba and Chinese banks to bring its mobile payment system to China. "We very much want to get Apple Pay in China," Cook told Xinhua.

At the time it seemed as though Apple might partner with Alipay, the mobile wallet Alibaba (BABA - Get Report) operates through its financial arm Ant Financial. No official announcements have since been made, though, so it would not be surprising to find out that those talks petered out, leaving Apple to attack China's mobile payments market on its own.

An Apple spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment. Ant Financial spokesperson Miranda Shek declined to comment on any partnership with Apple.

Must Read: Why Apple Pay's Big Head Start May Be a Good Thing for Google's Android Pay

"I don't think [Apple Pay's] success [in China] is necessitated by coming up with a deal," said Greg Portell, a partner in A.T. Kearney's Consumer Products & Retail and Media Practices. "When you think about Apple's creation of the ecosystem, they still have that advantage because with that installed phone base it is an easy way to get people to do business with them."



China is already Apple's second biggest market for its devices, which would make the rollout of Apple Pay much easier.

For the third quarter of 2015, Apple reported $13.2 billion in revenue from China alone. For context, the company brought in $20.2 billion from the Americas and $10.3 billion from Europe in the quarter.

Apple Pay has already launched in the U.S. and UK, so it would be no surprise to see the wallet arrive in China. And Apple has already dropped some hints that the launch is approaching.

