Volkswagen is facing a cascade of government investigations and consumer lawsuits over an emissions scandal that toppled Mueller's predecessor.

Porsche AG CEO Matthias Mueller. (Photo: Marijan Murat, EPA)

Volkswagen confirmed on Friday that its Porsche brand chief, Matthias Mueller, will become the next CEO of the automaker.

Mueller's ascension comes two days after Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn resigned following the eruption of a scandal involving the automaker's use of deceptive software to fool regulators into believing diesel cars were compliant with emissions laws.

The company has admitted to rigging 11 million cars with the software, which hid the fact that the vehicles are emitting harmful pollutants at rates of up to 40 times U.S. standards. Volkswagen is now facing a cascade of government investigations and consumer lawsuits over the scandal.

Expunging corruption, handling investigations and fixing cars while ensuring Volkswagen's survival will present a vexing challenge for Mueller, who has spent nearly four decades with the German automaker.

"My most urgent task is to win back trust for the Volkswagen Group – by leaving no stone unturned and with maximum transparency, as well as drawing the right conclusions from the current situation," Mueller, 62, said in a statement. "Under my leadership, Volkswagen will do everything it can to develop and implement the most stringent compliance and governance standards in our industry."

He added: "If we manage to achieve that then the Volkswagen Group with its innovative strength, its strong brands and above all its competent and highly motivated team has the opportunity to emerge from this crisis stronger than before.”

Mueller completed an apprenticeship with VW luxury brand Audi after high school before earning a computer science degree from Munich University of Applied Sciences. He rejoined Audi in 1978 and has served in various roles with VW since then, including head of product management of the Audi, Lamborghini and Volkswagen brands.

Since 2010, Mueller has led the Porsche division to earnings growth fueled by new products that have broadened its reach without compromising its image as an elite brand. His existing contract, which runs through 2020, will continue in his new role.

Despite success in his most recent role, Mueller's first task is convincing investors and the public that a longtime company insider can reinvent a broken corporate culture.

David Bach, senior associate dean at the Yale School of Management, said the company's misconduct is “so brazen” that a publicity campaign isn’t enough.

Bach even suggested that Mueller may even need to set his sights on a succession strategy from the beginning.

“The very fact that he has spent a good part of his career at Volkswagen raises question about this” promotion, Bach said. “Very often this requires someone from the outside to clean these things up.”

Separately, the company's board announced Friday that it has approved an overhaul of the company's bureaucracy designed to speed decision making and communication. That included a combination of its North American divisions into one unit and an elimination of corporate-level production decisions.

Mueller must expunge any problem spots in an organization with nearly 600,000 employees throughout the world, Bach said.

“We’re not talking about damage control,” Bach said. “The company has to come completely clean — lots of heads have to roll. You probably have to change lots of processes and procedures and then work very hard for many years to regain trust. This is not the kind of thing that you fix with making two or three changes at the top and paying the fine.”

For Mueller, the promotion comes several months after he nearly got the job under different circumstances.

The company's then-chairman, Ferdinand Piech, had waged a campaign to install Mueller as Winterkorn's replacement. Pieche failed and then exited the company's board. But his family still controls a majority of Volkswagen shares.

Industry observers view Mueller's hiring as something of a triumph for Piech despite the tumultuous circumstances.

The company is facing intense pressure over its admission that it dodged emissions regulations, allowing cars to emit excessive levels of nitrogen oxides — which can exacerbate respiratory conditions such as asthma.

Yale's Bach said a heavy dose of contrition is required.

“Apologizing, expressing shock and dismay, and pledging to commit all the resources of the organization to get to the bottom of this – acknowledging how customers were misled, how the public was misled, how people may have been harmed,” he said.

Follow USA TODAY reporter Nathan Bomey on Twitter @NathanBomey.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Fm3cxU