Sept. 23 -- Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn has stepped down from the helm of the automaker following the company's admission that it cheated on emissions tests. Bloomberg's Matt Miller discusses the company's search for a new CEO. Bloomberg

Martin Winterkorn has resigned as CEO of Volkswagen. (Photo: Tobias Schwarz, AFP/Getty Images)

Martin Winterkorn has resigned as CEO of Volkswagen, but his departure is sure to be just the start of a purge of executives and engineers in the wake of the automaker's emissions cheating scandal.

Though Winterkorn had promised a thorough outside examination of the debacle that has diminished Volkswagen's reputation and is sure to cost it billions, the company itself is yet to divulge what it knows about how the deception was perpetrated.

It's not known, for instance, whether the fraud was perpetrated by a small knot of engineers, working in secret, who took a shortcut while under intense pressure to get new diesel engines to meet emissions and performance objectives, or whether the orders to cheat came from higher ups.

Then there is the issue of the coverup. VW officials repeatedly rebuffed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board when asked to explain how their cars polluted heavily in the real world, but not in testing. It was only when they were confronted with the prospect of not having 2016 models certified that VW officials spilled the beans about misconduct.

In his resignation note, Winterkorn says he is "shocked by the events of the past few days" and "stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group." He professes no knowledge of misdeeds involving a mainstay of the brand -- diesels. The fuel-saving engines account for about a quarter of VW's sales in the U.S. alone.

Yet having led VW since 2007, Winterkorn was the leader among German automakers pushing the "clean diesel" message. With a background in metallurgy and science, one would have expected him to hammer his engineers for detailed answers about how VW's diesels were achieving lower levels of emissions than many rivals could accomplish.

Given that failure and the scope of the disaster, it was hard to see how he would survive the week.

Now the automaker faces fines, a criminal probe, lawsuits and massive recalls that could eventually encompass the 11 million vehicles. They are the ones that it has identified as having software that allows them to pass emissions testing certification, then hit the road spewing far more pollutants than the law allows.

It's bad enough that VW has 482,000 diesel vehicles that it has identified as containing the malicious software in the hands of U.S. consumers. But the company's bigger issue will be in Europe, where diesel cars are far more common than gasoline-powered ones and global warming has been taken serious longer than in the U.S.

The next CEO will face a crisis so deep that it could take years to unwind. Buyers of Volkswagen diesels are among the most environmentally conscious motorists in the U.S., having bought into the notion that "clean diesels" would bring them better fuel economy while producing fewer greenhouse gases.

Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn in 2012. (Photo: Marijan Murat, EPA)

VW's reputation has been built around its German engineering prowess -- never mind that many of its U.S. models were built in Chattanooga, Tenn., or Mexico. The next CEO will have to fundamentally rebuild the company without that reputation, putting on a reliance on other emissions-fighting technologies such as electrics or hybrids now that its expertise in diesels is in tatters.

It will be a long road back.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Kv3txi