Updated with Apple's stock price Thursday.

NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Apple (AAPL - Get Report) held a two-hour event on Wednesday in which it announced upgrades to nearly every product in its portfolio. The Cupertino, Calif.-based company announced updates and new features for the Apple TV and Apple Watch, as well as two new iPhones and a new iPad.

For the most part, though, analysts weren't that surprised by the news and reiterated their previous views on the company's potential growth.

Apple shares were up 0.77% to $110.99 in morning trading Thursday.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

Here's what analysts had to say about the big event:

T. Michael Walkley, Canaccord Genuity (Buy, $155 price target)

We believe Apple's announced products, including the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, along with a larger screen (12.9") iPad Pro, updated iPad Mini 4, and an updated Apple TV, strengthen Apple's overall ecosystem offering and should help drive continued strong earnings and cash flows. Consistent with our expectations, Apple announced iPhone 6S and 6S Plus products with improved battery life, case durability (7000 series aluminum), improved camera functionality and a new version of 3D Force Touch designed for iPhone.

We believe the new iPhone products along with the now $100 cheaper iPhone 6 should enable Apple to continue to grow its high-end smartphone market share and build on the strong market share gains the past year for the larger screen iPhone 6 devices. In fact, our surveys indicate a greater mix of Android smartphone consumers are still switching to the iPhone 6 smartphones than during iPhone 5 series launches.

We believe these trends should grow the iPhone installed base to over 500M exiting C2015, and this base should drive strong future iPhone replacement sales, earnings, as well as cash flow generation to fund strong long-term capital returns programs.

Keith Bachman, BMO Capital Markets (Outperform, $145 price target)

We thought Apple's event was a positive given that Apple continues to drive sustainable competitive positioning through technology innovation, not price. For example, as we contemplated the launch of Apple's larger-screen iPad over the past year, our fear was that Apple would simply announce a large-screen product. However, we believe that Apple brought new technology to the market that will matter to a segment of professional users, particularly creative users.

We were surprised about the Apple Pencil, as Steve Jobs more than once lambasted the concept, but we believe the Pencil will have high utility to the intended user base. While we believe that the relatively high price of the iPad Pro will limit the unit impact, we nevertheless believe sales will largely be incremental to our forecast.

The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus are available at the same price and storage capacity, with the prior-generation iPhone 6 and 6 Plus prices lower by $100, respectively. In other words, the iPhone 6 starts at $99, while the new low end will be the iPhone 5 for free based on two-year contract pricing.

We believe the lower pricing, including the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, will help generate upgrades from new customers, especially in emerging markets. As we previously, noted, we believe that two-thirds of iPhone sales in CY2016 will be generated from upgrades and one-third from new users.