Michael Horn: The Volkswagen U.S. CEO, who will remain in his job despite speculation that he might be out, will testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee on Thursday morning. (Photo: Kevin Hagen, AP)

Volkswagen's U.S. CEO will tell a House subcommittee Thursday that the automaker has withdrawn its application to certify to sell diesel-powered vehicles in the U.S.for the 2016 model year.

The withdrawal means that VW has, for the moment, given up trying to sell its small cars with the 2-liter diesel engine as a new model year arrives.

Further, CEO Michael Horn says in his prepared testimony that he first heard about emissions discrepancies with Volkswagen diesel cars in the spring of 2014, and was assured by the automaker's engineers that they would fix the problem. Later that year, he says VW had a specific plan to fix the affected models. It wasn't until Sept. 3 that he says VW admitted that it had put a "defeat device" -- hidden software -- aimed at cheating emissions tests.

Horn will be pressed to explain the origins and more details behind its emissions scandal when he is schedule to appear before the House Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations panel less than a month after the scandal erupted. The manipulative software is installed in up to 11 million diesel cars worldwide — which fooled regulators into believing that the vehicles were compliant with emissions standards.

Horn could be helped by the candor that he showed immediately after the scandal broke, admitting that Volkswagen "totally screwed up" just three days after the EPA exposed the scandal. But VW also presents a risk for a company that's already facing a slew of class-action lawsuits and government investigations, including a U.S. Justice Department criminal probe.

What's more, lawmakers are likely to press Horn for details on the deception and coverup unfolded, which Volkswagen has repeatedly said it's still assembling.

"One wrong remark and you can put yourself on a slippery slope," AutoPacific analyst Dave Sullivan said. "I'm sure he's being well coached and I'm sure his handlers are prepping him, but sometimes in these situations less is more."

Volkswagen has hired law firm Jones Day to investigate its handling of the matter but has said repeatedly that it does not have all the answers yet.

But the company's new CEO, Matthias Mueller, told a German newspaper earlier this week that the emissions manipulation originated from the company's operations in Germany, not the U.S., according to CNBC.

EPA officials testifying at the hearing could also face tough questions over the agency's failure to catch the scheme and over standards that are more stringent than in Europe. They are Christopher Grundler, director of the Office of Transportation and Air Quality and the Office of Air and Radiation, and Phillip Brooks, director of the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Air Enforcement Division.

According to a copy of their prepared remarks, Grundler and Brooks will tell the committee that the EPA is exploring Volkswagen's liability and whether other automakers are using similar technology.

The EPA has the power to fine Volkswagen up to $18 billion for installing defeat devices on about 482,000 diesel cars in the U.S.

"We intend to assess the economic benefit to VW of noncompliance and pursue appropriate penalties, as well as assess the excess pollution from VW's violations and appropriate ways to mitigate that harm," the EPA officials will say at Thursday's hearing.

Volkswagen's grilling is expected to be an unusually bipartisan affair. Republican and Democratic members of Congress have blasted the automaker for knowingly producing cars that emit harmful pollutants at rates of up to 40 times U.S. standards.

The driving force behind the investigation is U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has requested documents on the matter from Volkswagen and the EPA.

Upton's interest in the matter is two-fold. His home state has a high interest in ensuring a viable U.S. auto industry. But Volkswagen's manufacturing presence in the U.S. is limited to one factory in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee is also investigating Volkswagen's certification of 2009 and 2010 model-year cars as clean diesel vehicles that qualified for federal tax credits.

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the committee, and Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., ranking member, announced the investigation Tuesday.

Follow USA TODAY reporter Nathan Bomey on Twitter @NathanBomey.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1LivREz