When Trian Partners, the activist hedge fund run by Nelson Peltz, disclosed that it had taken a giant position in General Electric, Cramer was intrigued. In fact, when Cramer was doing research for his last book he found that Peltz was the only activist investor that consistently beat the market if investors piggybacked after he had disclosed that he had taken a position.

Many activist money managers can beat the market, but they are only required to disclose holdings once a quarter. That means investors will almost always end up paying a higher price for the same stock, because the stocks will tend to spike once the news breaks.

"But Nelson Peltz is so talented at convincing companies to unlock value that it is often worth buying his favorite holdings, even if you have to buy into the spike that almost always comes with his announcement of a hefty new position," the "Mad Money" host said.

So, Cramer was excited a week and a half ago, when Trian Partners announced it had become one of the 10 largest shareholders in General Electric and said the stock was undervalued and underappreciated and predicted it could travel as high as $45 in 2017.

However, Peltz is invested in this company for the long term. So, between GE's oil business and its exposure to China, Cramer expects a good but not a blowout quarter.

"Given that the stock has rallied 20 percent since bottoming in late August, any kind of sub-par performance will likely cause it to sell-off," Cramer said.

Read MoreCramer: What to expect when GE reports



Cramer also heard some surprisingly positive stories from the big national banks earlier this week, so he was interested in hearing what the regional banks had to say on Thursday.

BB&T is a regional bank that is heavily concentrated in the southeast and has a 2.95 percent yield. It has been making a series of acquisitions, as back in August investors learned that it would buy National Penn Bank for $1.8 billion in cash and stock, right after it had closed on its purchases of Susquehanna and Bank of Kentucky.

With interest rates still low and the economy getting better and the stock only a few points above its 52-week lows, Cramer thinks it could have more room to run.

To learn more, he spoke with BB&T CEO Kelly King.

"I think there was kind of a general lackluster view, and while all of our earnings are not fantastic, they are a lot better than I think people thought. And so you are getting a positive kick appropriately in the market," King said.