NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- With Apple Inc. (AAPL - Get Report) winning a small ruling against Samsung Electronics Co. in a patent case, we decided to check TheStreet Quant Ratings if the tech behemoth is a good investment.

The fine was small ($119.6 million) and Apple believes Samsung should be penalized even more than just the fine it's been ordered to pay. This issue started in 2014 when Apple accused Samsung of violating its iPhone patents.

Given Apple's track record over the past 15 years, investors are looking for any opportunity to jump in while the company is trading well off all-time highs.

Here is the recommendation, according to TheStreet Ratings, TheStreet's proprietary ratings tool.

TheStreet Ratings projects a stock's total return potential over a 12-month period including both price appreciation and dividends. Based on 32 major data points, TheStreet Ratings uses a quantitative approach to rating over 4,300 stocks to predict return potential for the next year. The model is both objective, using elements such as volatility of past operating revenues, financial strength, and company cash flows, and subjective, including expected equities market returns, future interest rates, implied industry outlook and forecasted company earnings.

Buying an S&P 500 stock that TheStreet Ratings rated a buy yielded a 16.56% return in 2014, beating the S&P 500 Total Return Index by 304 basis points. Buying a Russell 2000 stock that TheStreet Ratings rated a buy yielded a 9.5% return in 2014, beating the Russell 2000 index, including dividends reinvested, by 460 basis points last year.

When you're done, be sure to read about which pharmaceutical stocks JPMorgan recommends. Year-to-date returns are based on September 17, 2015 prices as of 2:17pm.

AAPL data by YCharts

Apple Inc. AAPL

Rating: Buy, B+

Market Cap: $657.3 billion

Year-to-date return: 4.44%

Apple Inc. designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, watches, and portable digital music players worldwide.

TheStreet Ratings team rates APPLE INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate APPLE INC (AAPL) a BUY. This is driven by a number of strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its solid stock price performance, impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, robust revenue growth and notable return on equity. Although no company is perfect, currently we do not see any significant weaknesses which are likely to detract from the generally positive outlook. "

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: