Asian shares were mixed amid choppy trade on Monday after China's gross domestic product (GDP) showed the world's second-biggest economy cooled lesser than expected.

China's economy expanded 6.9 percent on-year in the third quarter, official data showed on Monday, compared with the prediction of 6.8 percent by Reuters.

However, a string of monthly indicators released alongside the GDP data hinted at lingering weakness in the economy.



Industrial production rose 5.7 percent on-year in September, missing expectations for a rise of 6.0 percent and coming in below August's 6.1 percent gain.

Read More Poll: How is China's slowdown impacting your investments?

Fixed-asset investment (FAI) - seen as a crucial driver of China's economy - came in at 10.3 percent in the first nine months of 2015, also below estimates for 10.8 percent growth.

Retail sales was the exception, with annual growth of 10.9 percent in September, slightly above Reuters' prediction of 10.8 percent.

"It's hard to be overly optimistic about the headline number, especially given the range of other data released today. Nonetheless, markets have clearly been buoyed by the better than expected headline number, and it shows that China's economy has not deteriorated as much as some had thought," IG's market analyst Augus Nicholson wrote in a note.

ANZ analysts agree: "This is the first time since first quarter [in] 2009 that GDP growth has fallen below percent, suggesting China has entered a 'new normal'. We think that this number will be perceived as an upside surprise by the market. Fourth quarter growth outlook should still be stable on fiscal support and monetary policy easing, implying that full year GDP growth could be closer to the target level of 7 percent."

An upbeat lead from Wall Street probably helped sentiment in Asia as well. U.S. stocks finished higher last Friday, chalking up a third week of gains, on the back of surging General Electric shares and upbeat consumer sentiment data. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 closed up 0.4 and 0.5 percent respectively, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite edged up 0.3 percent, posting its first three consecutive weeks of gains since February.