NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stock index futures opened lower Sunday after major indexes sold off in Friday's session, as markets reacted to the Federal Reserve's decision to leave interest rates unchanged.

Tonight, Dow futures were down 17 points, or about 0.1% in New York, and S&P 500 E-mini futures declined 0.14%. Nasdaq 100 E-mini futures fell 0.15%. The U.S. Dollar Index moved higher by 0.38%.

Greece's Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and his left-wing Syriza party secured a re-election win Sunday and are now expected to implement the austerity bailout program that was signed this summer.

Over the weekend, a number of popular Chinese mobile apps, including Tencent's WeChat, were infected with malware by hackers targeting Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) iOS mobile platform, the Wall Street Journal reported (Apple is part of Jim Cramer's charitable trust portfolio, Action Alerts PLUS).

Volkswagen (VLKAY) suspended sales in the U.S. of all vehicles containing its diesel four-cylinder TDI engine in light of a U.S. investigation that the German auto maker allegedly manipulated emissions data, the Journal reported.

Warner Bros., the movie studio owned by Time Warner (TWX - Get Report) , said it struck a deal with private equity firm China Media Capital to make Chinese language films for the lucrative market, the Journal reported.

The U.K.-based chipmaker Dialog Semiconductor said it has agreed to take over U.S. peer and Stocks Under $10 holding Atmel (ATML - Get Report) for a total of $4.6 billion in cash and stock.

Looking ahead, on Monday, we're watching earnings reports from homebuilder Lennar (LEN - Get Report) and software company RedHat (RHT) . Cramer is bullish on both names.

On Tuesday, we're watching Cramer fave AutoZone (AZO) and Carnival Cruises (CCL) , which is still trying to turn things around.

ConAgra (CAG) and Darden Restaurants (DRI) also look well positioned ahead of their reports as activist investors bring out value. Finally, Cramer likes cereal maker General Mills (GIS) as it works to reinvent itself.

On Wednesday, we'll be watching the latest European PMI numbers. Stronger is better, Cramer said, because it will weaken the U.S. dollar, which will help U.S. exports.

On Thursday, watch for earnings from Accenture (ACN) and Nike (NKE) , both of which Cramer likes. KB Home (KBH) , Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) , Pier 1 Imports (PIR) also report, but Cramer didn't give his blessing on any.

Finally, on Friday, Finish Line (FINL) and BlackBerry (BBRY) report. Cramer said he likes Finish Line, especially if Nike gives us good news on Thursday. Cramer advised staying away from BBRY.

Separately, Barron's cover story focused on retirement savings, with experts opining on everything from the effects of the recent market volatility on savings income to managing spending levels for retirees.

And for a couple stock-based stories, Barron's featured Ralph Lauren (RL) and GoPro (GPRO) . Though shares of RL are down 40% year to date, overseas expansion and rising margins could lift the stock 20% or more, Barron's said. But danger lurks for GoPro as others enter the market for action cameras, Barron's said, adding that GPRO could fall up to 30% more, to $25.

For even more information on data and earnings in the week ahead, read this article by fellow Real Money contributors Lenore Hawkins and Chris Versace and reference The Street's weekly earnings calendar.