NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Private electronics maker Roku is coming out with an updated version of its popular streaming media player, looking to take a bigger chunk out of the already-troubled pay-TV market.

The new Roku 4 device, which has access to 300,000 movies and TV episodes, will roll out in October along with an updated operating system with new search and custom-streaming features, the company announced today. The new device will also allow content providers to develop custom streaming channels to hone audiences as they see fit. Additionally, the Roku 4 will offer enhanced voice search and a functionality to locate a lost remote control.

The product joins Alphabet/Google's (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) Chomecast 2, Amazon's (AMZN - Get Report) Fire TV and Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) Apple TV as one of the many on-demand content options catering to cable-shy millennials and viewers tired of dealing with traditional cable companies.

"With Roku OS 7, consumers can now follow movies, TV shows, actors and directors to receive automatic updates in their Roku Feed from select partners," the company said in a statement.

Must Read: Is Tesla's Model X Too Expensive?

While the Roku 4, Fire TV and Apple TV are essentially all content hubs, organizing shows and movies into easy-to-navigate menus, Google's Chromecast is more of an accessory for your computer or mobile device, allowing you to beam content onto your TV.



The Roku 4 will be available in this month, though the company hasn't said exactly when, for a recommended price of $129.99. It's available for pre-order now on Roku's website.

Roku is gunning right for the heart of the millennial demographic with their new device, designing certain elements for use specifically in colleges and universities.

"Those at college or who travel and want to stream will now be able to use the new Hotel and Dorm Connect feature for quick wireless connectivity in locations that require log-in credentials to access the network," Roku spokesman Kelly Kronmiller said in an email.