NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Energy stocks continue to rally, with the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE) up 1.25% as West Texas Intermediate oil prices rally 3.3% on Thursday.

It's also notable how technology and health care stocks are down on the day, Joseph Terranova, senior managing partner at Virtus Investment Partners, said on CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime" show. It's clear that investors are rotating out of growth stocks and into beaten down sectors, like energy.

However, Terranova doesn't expect this move to weigh down the overall market, as the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) should continue its move higher.

Apple (AAPL - Get Report) has been notably lagging the market in recent trading, according to Pete Najarian, co-founder of optionmonster.com and trademonster.com. He referenced comments from top-ranked tech analyst Toni Sacconaghi, who said the stock could fall to $100 on weak iPhone sales results, but rally toward $150 on strong results. That looks like a good risk/reward, Najarian said.

Must Read: Technical Trip Around the World Shows 9 Markets Under a Cloud

Jon Najarian, co-founder of optionmonster.com and trademonster.com, said he finds Apple attractive near current levels, and a drop down toward $105 makes it even more attractive, especially with earnings just a few weeks away. He explained that it's better for bulls if the stock declines going into earnings, rather than rallies into the report.

While the move in oil prices helps stocks, Jim Lebenthal, CFO and CIO of Lebenthal & Company, says the focus will boil down to China, especially when earnings get under way. Yum! Brands (YUM - Get Report) reported a bad quarter in the country, but Nike's (NKE - Get Report) results in China were fantastic, he explained. Let's hear what General Motors (GM) and Apple have to say later this month.

Andres Garcia-Amaya, emerging markets analyst at J.P. Morgan Asset Management, says investors had been pricing in a crisis in emerging markets over the past few months, when really, there is no crisis to be had. There is simply a growth slowdown, he said. While he's not overly pessimistic on emerging markets, he's not overly bullish either, saying it will take more than a low valuation to move these stocks higher.

The emerging market landscape ultimately boils down to China, he said. Investors are realizing that the country simply is not growing at the same pace it has over the past few years -- but it is notable that it is still growing. Real estate prices have been trending higher over the past three months, too. This is a bullish sign.

Garcia-Amaya called Russia one of his top picks. The dividend yield is 5%, while the stocks trade at just 4.5 times forward earnings estimates -- which is incredibly low. Either the country is going bankrupt or it's trading at a steep discount. Garcia-Amaya says the latter seems much more likely.

While several companies have already reported earnings this quarter, the earnings season unofficially begins when Alcoa (AA) reports after the close on Thursday.

Christine Short, senior vice president at Estimize, said expectations for the quarter are low once again. Overall expectations for the S&P 500 are for earnings to contract 2.5% year over year, and revenue growth to shrink 1.7% compared to the same quarter last year.

Investors seem overly pessimistic, so there is a chance of upside surprise, Short said. She explained that energy earnings will once again weigh negatively on the S&P 500, as many companies are doing worse than they were at this time last year, despite oil prices being down significantly in the third quarter of 2014 as well.



So what can investors lean on now? Short says to watch consumer discretionary stocks, as earnings are expected to grow 13.5% year over year, driven by a stronger consumer and low gas prices. She also says automakers should put up strong results. Health care will also likely do well, with earnings to grow 11%.