NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- While the stock market and the pundits have been focused on a Fed rate-hike decision, shares of tech giant Apple (AAPL - Get Report) have quietly soared 26% to around $116, a healthy rebound since they hit their recent low of $92 on Aug. 24.

Shares of the Cupertino-based iPhone maker are still down some 14% from the 52-week high of $134.54 they reached in July. But it's likely just a matter of time before Apple reclaims that level -- and then some. And given the company's more than $200 billion in cash on the balance sheet and another $81 billion operating cash flow, good luck finding a better-priced stock than Apple.

With shares trading at just 12 times fiscal 2015 earnings estimates of $9.12 a share, the smart play here is to buy the stock or add to an existing position, while holding for the long term. As evidenced by Apple's discounted P/E, it would seem there's ample concern in the market about the possibility of slowing growth ahead. But based on the company's bullish commentary about its recently-launched iPhone 6S and 6S Plus models, the growth story has only just begun.

Customers were allowed to pre-order the new phones -- unveiled last week at an event in San Francisco -- starting this past Saturday. Earlier this week, the company proclaimed, "We are on pace to beat last year's 10 million unit first-weekend record when the new iPhones go on sale September 25." Whether sales of the new phones, which come equipped with 3D Touch sensors, can maintain their early momentum remains to be seen.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

And while Apple didn't disclose the exact number of devices that were pre-ordered last weekend, analysts' average estimate is that the tech giant will see them exceed pre-order levels on a year-over-year basis by 12.5%, rising from 4 million to 4.5 million. Accordingly, analysts' earnings estimates for the quarter ending in September have increased, climbing more than 2% since the start of the quarter to $1.87 a share.

Not impressed? Consider, not only would an EPS of $1.87 represent year-over-year growth of 31%, revenue for the quarter is projected to climb some 21% to $50.88 billion. Need another reason to buy these shares today? Projected full-year earnings of $9.12 per share -- up 1% since the start of the quarter -- would mark a 41% year-over-year increase. Apple -- already the world’s most valuable company -- is still putting up gaudy growth numbers.

The struggles of the Chinese economy -- which is already Apple's second-largest market and is on track to surpass the U.S. as its No. 1 revenue and profit generator -- have taken some wind out of Apple's sails. But Apple has only penetrated about 30% of the Chinese market, which leaves it tons of room to grow.

Not only does Apple stock have an average analyst 12-month price target of $150, some 30% higher than current levels, it comes with a 52-cent quarterly dividend that yields 1.8% annually. In short, until clearer signs of slowing growth emerge, this stock, which has a consensus buy rating, remains a smart purchase.