NEW YORK (TheStreet) --On Wednesday, Apple (AAPL - Get Report) announced a payment plan for the latest iPhone models that will compete with other wireless carriers' financing offers.

Prices for the unlocked iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, which will be available on September 25, will start at $32 and $37 a month, respectively, with the option to upgrade annually.

AT&T (T) and Verizon (VZ) have been offering monthly payments for devices to replace two-year contracts, but the average upgrade time has been increasing, up to 26.3 months in 2015, compared with 18.2 months in 2010, The Wall Street Journal reports.

Apple's pricing plan is shifting the leverage on wireless pricing to itself and the customer, Verizon's former chief operating officer Denny Strigl told The Journal.

T-Mobile (TMUS) COO Mike Sievert welcomed Apple's move because customers can switch carriers more flexibly, while Sprint (S) CEO Marcelo Claure said the two-year contracts are what hinder upgrades, The Journal added.

"Apple's move is perhaps a bit threatening, in that it incrementally erodes the carrier's relationship with the customer," MoffettNathanson senior analyst Craig Moffett told The Journal.

Apple stock is down by 0.27% to $109.85 in pre-market trading on Thursday.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates APPLE INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate APPLE INC (AAPL) a BUY. This is driven by a few notable strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its solid stock price performance, impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, robust revenue growth and notable return on equity. Although no company is perfect, currently we do not see any significant weaknesses which are likely to detract from the generally positive outlook."

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: