NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The broader stock market rallied on Thursday, with the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) climbing 0.45%, but the CNBC "Fast Money" traders had their focus on something else: Oil. West Texas Intermediate prices climbed 3.4% on the day, despite a larger-than-anticipated build in inventories.

Oil rallying on bad news? That's exactly the type of thing Brian Kelly likes to see. Kelly, the founder of Brian Kelly Capital, said investors looking to see a bump in oil prices are best off buying oil outright, via the United States Oil ETF (USO). In regards to specific energy stocks, he like Exxon Mobil (XOM) the most.

Steve Grasso, director of institutional sales at Stuart Frankel, says the current resistance in oil looks to be around $50. Investors who don't have faith in China's economy shouldn't buy oil, as the commodity will likely struggle without one of its largest importers showing an improving economy.

Investors who want to own energy stocks should stick with the refiners, Grasso added.

Must Read: George Soros' Top 5 Dividend Stock Picks for 2015

Guy Adami, managing director of stockmonster.com, seconded that opinion, saying investors can stay long Tesoro Corp. (TSO) above $95. He also likes airline stocks, specifically JetBlue Airways (JBLU), which benefit from lower fuel costs.

Even if oil prices do rally up to $50 per barrel and stay there, it won't be good enough for large integrated oil companies likes Exxon Mobil and Chevron (CVX), Adami said. Oil needs to get to around $75 for those companies to do meaningfully better.

Adami added that the oil volatility index stayed above $50 Thursday despite the big jump in oil prices, when the index should fall when oil rallies and vice versa. It could mean oil prices are setting up for another selloff, he said.

Investors looking to get long energy stocks should just stick with the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE), according to Dan Nathan, co-founder and editor of riskreversal.com. He likes this exchange-traded fund near $60 and he also likes Baker Hughes (BHI) below $50.



