NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Despite reports Amazon (AMZN - Get Report) is slowing down on adding new hardware to its lineup, the company is refreshing its tablet lineup and streaming devices at a furious pace, including breaking new ground on pricing.

The company announced it was introducing four new tablets, including the Fire tablet, a new tablet for under $50. "Today, we're taking another step in our mission to deliver premium products at non-premium prices," said CEO Jeff Bezos in a statement. "The all-new Fire features a quad-core processor, is incredibly durable, and is backed by the Amazon content ecosystem, the new Amazon Underground, and Amazon customer service with Mayday Screen Sharing. Fire sets a new bar for what customers should expect from a low cost tablet."

In addition, Amazon is offering consumers a way to purchase the tablets in packs of six, only paying $249.95 for the set.

The new tablet, which starts shipping on Sept. 30, comes with a 7-inch screen, front and rear-facing cameras and can expand to 128GB worth of storage, though the company did not say exactly how much on-board storage there would be.

Must Read: Apple TV Is a Much Bigger Game Changer Than You Thought -- Here's Why

In addition, Amazon unveiled two new Fire HD tablets, the Fire HD 8 and Fire HD 10. These tablets have a widescreen-HD display, offering 8-inch and 10.1-inch displays, respectively. Like the cheaper Fire tablet, both can be expanded to 128 GB of memory using external storage.

Starting at $149.99 for the 8 GB Fire HD 8 model and $229.99 for the 16 GB version of the Fire HD 10, the company is focusing on differentiating itself from Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) iPad Air. Both tablets offer all-day battery life that delivers up to 8 hours of reading, browsing the web, listening to music, and watching video. In addition, the tablets are very light, with the Fire HD 10, weighing just 432 grams.

As part of the introduction of the new Fire HD models, Amazon updated a new version of its Fire operating system, Fire OS 5 Bellini. Bellini is a forked version of Google's (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) Android Lollipop, but with the familiar Amazon user interface, as well as several new features. Included in the new features are Amazon Underground, amazon's app store that provides apps that are normally paid, making them available for free. In addition, Amazon added an on deck feature, letting Amazon Prime users use the available storage on the device to watch a movie or TV show.