SAN FRANCISCO (TheStreet) -- Now that Apple (AAPL - Get Report) has unveiled its latest plethora of products, attention turns to whether the new Apple TV, iPhones and iPad Pro will drive Apple's sales even higher in what is historically the company's biggest sales period of the year.

There's no secret why the Apple TV goes on sale in late October and the iPad Pro in November. Apple wants the reinvented versions of the devices to grease the skids for the end-of-the-year Christmas and holiday shopping seasons.

The new iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus will be available for sale on Sept. 25. Some new models of the Apple Watch started shipping Wednesday, but are not expected to have a major impact on Apple's current quarter, which concludes at the end of September.

The new products will have their first effects on Apple's business in the company's fiscal first quarter, ending in December. And since Apple reported revenue of $74.6 billion in that period last year, the pressure is on for the raft of devices to succeed at levels that may be even tough for Apple to reach.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

"It's a pivotal time for Apple, because the comparable [results] are getting very tough in the December quarter," said Daniel Ives, who covers Apple for FBR. "But, there is a massive window of opportunity that they need to seize going into the holiday season."

Ives said there are several factors in Apple's favor going into the holidays. Ives said that the impetus for consumers to upgrade to the new iPhones is strong, as he estimates that, at most, 30% of iPhone owners have upgraded to the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which have been out for a year. Ives also called the new Apple TV, with its voice-command and universal search technologies, "the first step" toward the vision of ultimate streaming television next year, and that the iPad Pro marks a fundamental change in Apple's philosophy in that the company is going after the enterprise market in a way it hasn't in years.

"These should give them some catalysts," Ives said. "It's going to set up for a huge proving situation in the next six to 12 months."

