The pressures that have slowed tech growth this year will show up again when Q3 earnings season begins in earnest on Tuesday, when chip leader Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) reports.

The consensus estimate for the 68 tech companies in the S&P 500 is for earnings-per-share growth to average just 2.4% from the year-earlier quarter. That's despite an expected huge quarter of 32% EPS growth from the biggest company of all, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL).

Tech companies have long been the innovation trendsetters, turning in strong earnings reports that most often put the industry at or near the top of the best-performing groups in the S&P 500. At least, that's how it had been. But the 2.4% average EPS growth outlook for Q3 would mark the sector's worst performance since Q2 2013, according to data collected by Thomson Reuters.

Apple's Hong Kong store attracts a crowd. The iPhone maker is expected to be among the Q3 EPS standouts. View Enlarged Image

And if Apple is taken out of the equation, then average tech EPS would be expected to fall by 3.4%.

For the S&P 500 as a whole, analyst consensus estimates call for earnings per share, typically minus items such as stock options, to fall 4.5%. That drop is largely due to the ailing energy sector, which is expected to see EPS tumble 26%. Excluding the energy section, EPS is expected to rise 2% overall for the S&P 500.

As has been the case all year, a weak global economy, strong dollar, slow PC sales and the seismic shift to cloud computing continue to weigh on the tech sector.

"The tech industry is no longer one of the consistent leaders each quarter, but it's expected to improve going into next year," said Gregory Harrison, earnings analyst at Thomson Reuters.

But first, the outlook is expected to get worse before it gets better. For Q4, the consensus tech EPS estimate is for a slight decline of 0.3%. That's expected to improve to growth of 6.7% in Q1 2016 and 8.8% in Q2.

Optimism Vs. Reality

Analysts, it should be noted, tend to be more optimistic the further out they look. At the start of this year, for example, the consensus Q3 tech EPS estimate was for growth of 12%. That Q3 consensus forecast fell to 9.4% in April and 6% in July, before hitting the current 2.4%.

"Optimism goes away when reality begins coming into view," said Harrison.

Bill Whyman, an analyst at Evercore ISI, does expect things to improve in 2016, but he says improvements will be weighted more toward the second half. Whyman gave his tech outlook in a conference call with investors on Oct. 5.