Getty Images The political divide in Congress appears to grow by the day and Republicans themselves are severely at odds.

If Republicans aren’t already divided enough, several dozen party members have signed a petition that will force the House to vote on whether to revive a controversial government-run bank that helps big American companies sell goods overseas.

Some 41 Republicans signed a so-called discharge petition in an effort to fully reopen the Export-Import Bank. They joined ranks with nearly all Democrats to meet the 218-vote threshold required to allow a bill to reach the House floor.

Even if the little-used tactic leads to a pro-bank vote in the House, reauthorization faces a high hurdle in the Senate. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky is opposed to a stand-alone vote, which could take up at least a week of the Senate’s time because of procedural rules involved.

“The Senate is not going to spend a week on a bill that the leader doesn’t support,” said Don Stewart, McConnell’s spokesman.

The renewed attempt to restore the so-called Ex-Im bank comes just one day after Republican Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, the presumed heir apparent to outgoing Speaker John Boehner, suddenly quit the race.

His surprise withdrawal has thrust the Republican-led Congress into a period of uncertainty just as the 2016 presidential election season gets underway and the threat of a government shutdown looms if the two parties can’t agree on a budget or an increase in the federal debt ceiling.

Bank fight

A discharge petition is an obscure technique used to force a vote on an issue against the wishes of party leadership. They are rarely used and rarely succeed.

Yet dozens of Republicans from states with close ties to companies that do business with Ex-Im want the bank reopened. They say it’s costing the U.S. jobs, an argument put forth repeatedly by the companies themselves.

GE, for example, recently said it was shifting several hundred jobs overseas because the bank’s closure made it harder for the company to arrange financing for some of its sales.

Republican Stephen Fincher of Tennessee, a former Tea Party favorite, led the push against his own party’s leadership. In a tweet, Fincher said the end of the bank will harm the U.S. economy.

Without the #ExImBank thousands of #jobs will be put in jeopardy and local economies will pay the price. We must hold a vote. #Fighting4Jobs — Stephen Fincher (@RepFincherTN08) October 9, 2015

The 81-year-old bank’s charter expired during the summer after a majority of Republicans opposed reauthorization, calling Ex-Im a form of corporate welfare. The bank is still handling existing loans but it can’t issue new ones.

The bank helps large U.S. companies, mainly Boeing BA, +3.63% and General Electric GE, +2.53% to sell planes, engines and other expensive goods to foreign companies and governments.

Conservative opponents in the House warned their Republican colleagues that the discharge petition will only serve to inflame tensions within the party and empower Democrats.

“At a time when our Republican conference is divided, this will divide it further,” said Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. “Signing a discharge petition — regardless of the issue — gives Democrats control over our agenda.”

The last time a discharge petition was successful was more than 15 years ago, when it was used to bring a controversial campaign-finance reform law popularly known as McCain-Feingold to an eventual vote.

More from MarketWatch