General Electric Co. is expected to report third-quarter earnings before the bell on Friday.

Investors are counting on GE GE, +2.53% to report progress on its ongoing plan to return to its industrial roots and sell nearly all of its U.S. financial-services operations.

That plan took a major step forward on Tuesday, when GE announced it had agreed to sell its commercial lending and leasing business, one of the largest pieces of its financial-services unit GE Capital, to Wells Fargo & Co. WFC, +1.77%

Financial terms of the deal weren’t disclosed; the sale includes assets worth about $32 billion and 3,000 employees. So far, GE Capital has divested more than $126 billion, the company said.

Here’s what to do expect:

Earnings: GE is expected to report adjusted earnings of 26 cents a share in the third quarter, according to the average estimate of analysts polled by FactSet. That’s down from 38 cents a share in the same period a year ago.

Revenue: Sales are expected to decline by more than 20% to $28.61 billion in the quarter, from $36.17 billion a year ago, according to FactSet. GE Capital, which a year ago accounted for nearly a third of GE’s sales, is seen as contributing less than 10% to the company revenue.

Share price: Shares of GE have gained 11% so far this year, versus losses of 4% for the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +1.87% in the same period. That outperformance also holds for the last three months, with GE stock up nearly 6% compared with losses of nearly 5% for the index.

Earlier this year, the stock came out of a 15-year slump as investors cheered the news GE was exiting the financial-services business. GE is also selling its appliances unit.

Other issues: Some analysts see potential for GE earnings to come in slightly better than expected, as GE’s transportation and power and water businesses could show more strength than forecast.

But deal updates are likely to be “more important than the earnings themselves,” Nicholas Heymann, an analyst with William Blair, said in a interview.

Such updates include more about the final round of GE Capital divestitures, the latest about the deal with Alstom SA ALO, +0.99% for the French company’s power business, and the sale of GE’s appliances business to Sweden’s Electrolux AB. ELUXY, +0.17%

GE recently won the approval from several global regulators for its $17 billion deal with Alstom’s energy. In Europe, it agreed to sell the French company’s turbine assets to allay concerns about competitiveness. GE may disclose Friday what more it may have sold or may have to sell to usher the deal through globally, Heymann said. The Alstom deal has not yet closed.

Also on investor’s sights will be updates on the deal with Sweden’s AB Electrolux, which agreed to buy GE’s appliances business in September 2014 for $3.3 billion. The U.S. Justice Department has sought to block the deal over worries about it could lead to higher prices for white goods such as ranges and ovens.

GE is fresh from news last week that Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund Management bought $2.5 billion worth of GE shares, or roughly a 1% stake, making it one of the largest GE investors.

See also: GE shareholders have no choice but to welcome Peltz’s investment

Trian has called for GE to increase cost reductions, to consider getting rid of more GE Capital assets, and to be more cautious about future acquisitions. Trian did not advocate for a board seat and the fund seems to be broadly supportive of GE’s plans, which “speaks to the soundness of GE’s strategy,” analysts at Stifel said in a recent note to clients.

William Blair on Tuesday upgraded GE stock to buy from neutral.

Few people “fully perceive what GE will become and how different the sources of its growth will be,” Heymann and his team said in a note. “If we were to own just one multi-industry stock for the rest of the decade to outperform the market, GE would be the one,” they said.

More from MarketWatch