NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- If you're trying to start a vineyard, the first important decision you make won't have anything to do with grapes or what kind of barrels you age your product in if you want to be successful -- it will be about what mobile technologies you employ.

We all know the world of business is changing, following consumers' head-long jump into mobile technology, but the speed at which these changes are happening -- or, in many cases, have already happened -- will shock you.

Scott Stawski, an author, TheStreet contributor, and a sales executive at Hewlett Packard Enterprise, a division of Hewlett-Packard (HPQ - Get Report) , has penned a book on the topic, Inflection Point: How the Convergence of Cloud, Mobility, Apps, and Data Will Shape the Future of Business. Below is an excerpt, reprinted with the permission from Pearson Education, a division of Pearson (PSO) .

Must Read: A 'Fundamentalist' Leans Technical; The Case for Muni Bonds: Best of Kass

The Future Is Mobile

As I walked down the street while talking on the phone, sophisticated New Yorkers gaped at the sight of someone actually moving around while making a phone call. Remember that in 1973, there weren't cordless telephones, let alone cellular phones. I made numerous calls, including one where I crossed the street while talking to a New York radio reporter -- probably one of the more dangerous things I have ever done in my life.

-- Martin Cooper, engineer and inventor of handheld mobile phone

Our family has always shared a passion for wine-wine tasting, having a good bottle of wine with the right meal. I think it stems from my wife's love of everything culinary. As a chef, she knows that a great bottle of wine, regardless of price, can make a meal perfect.

Over time, our passion for wine has grown, finally manifesting as the desire to have what some people call a micro vineyard (it's two acres-larger than just a hobby vineyard but not quite a full-scale commercial venture). The challenge is that we live in Texas, just north of Dallas. Texas is achieving a good reputation for wines and now ranks as the fifth-largest producer of wines in the United States. Even so, not many companies here can help with the whole value chain of a vineyard-from selecting the grapevines to planting and growing them successfully to fermenting, bottling and aging.

So just how mobile and connected a world are we?

Let me tell you a little about our micro vineyard, which has become very successful through the mobile technology that connects us to companies and institutions around the world.

We started out very slowly. First, I needed some education. Of course, I know how to drink wine, and I understand the basics of winemaking. However, if we were going to invest a hefty sum in a two-acre vineyard, the data analyst in me wanted to gather every bit of information available. There are some great viticulture and enology education programs throughout the United States, but with my travel schedule, regular attendance was not an option. Our first mobile stop was the University of California Davis. UC Davis Extension has a wine making certificate program online and is 100 percent mobile optimized. I enrolled, and the education has been invaluable.