NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- It's the one-year anniversary of Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) Apple Pay this month and so far the results have been distinctly underwhelming.

According to the latest numbers, the mobile payments system accounts for only 1% of all retail transactions taking place in the U.S. Reports suggest the payment method has been held back by the limited number of tap-to-pay terminals in stores, with many people still unsure how to use the service.

Apple Pay currently only works on the 6, 6s and 6 plus iPhone models, which has also restricted the user base. Apple CEO Tim Cook was vocal about his hopes that the digital wallet would rival PayPal (PYPL) and that we were about to see "the year of Apple Pay," but the results so far have been weaker than expected. The company is now expecting growth to be reasonable for the next 3-5 years before encountering a sudden surge.

Right now there is no shortage of digital payment rivals jostling to secure market share. Google's (GOOGL - Get Report) digital payment equivalent has also seen a slow uptake and weak adoption numbers but has benefited from the ability to be used at more locations.

Must Read: Even Amid September's Selloff, Investors Were Buying These Stocks

In other tech news, Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) has overhauled its mobile strategy once again and has lowered its expectations for mass market phone sales. The tech giant is now aiming for smaller, specialized markets where its smartphone offering can have technical advantages. Microsoft is set to announce the launch of its new Lumia phones equipped with Windows 10 software this month. The company is aiming to have the latest programming technology installed on one billion windows devices by 2018 which will tie the computer and mobile experience closer together, streamlining the transition between the two.

CEO Satya Nadella has made it clear that his focus will be mobile strategy and cloud computing services. The company is currently increasing its efforts to improve the Windows software for Iphone and Android.