NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- A popular children's book from the early 1960s described Israel as a land of "bibles and Boeings," "camels and Cadillacs." This is Israel called the desert town of Beersheva, "a city of research where solar rays are set to heating water -- and producing energy."

Israel 50 years ago was a land of contrasts, with a socialist economy, ancient history, a modern airline flying the latest jets and research being done into what we now consider a "high-tech" industry. And yet, this children's favorite also noted that Israel still had no television stations of its own.

Sixty-seven years after achieving its independence, Israel remains a land of contradictions. How is it that a country the size of New Jersey, with a population smaller than that of New York City, and one subject to the continual threat of armed conflict, has become the fifth most technologically advanced country in the world, ahead of both the U.S. and the U.K.?

Israel currently spends 4.2% of its gross domestic product on civilian research and development, more than any other country, and more than twice the level that is spent in the U.S. The country is ranked only behind Silicon Valley for the total number of start-ups in one location and ranks higher on start-ups per capita.

Must Read: Oppenheimer's 10 Stocks to Buy in 10 S&P 500 Sectors

In addition, nearly every major global technology company has a significant R&D facility in Israel. These include Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) , Google (GOOGL - Get Report) , Cisco (CSCO - Get Report) , Samsung, General Electric (GE - Get Report) and 3M (MMM - Get Report) . Apple (AAPL) just recently consolidated all of its Israeli employees into a single location in Israel. It constitutes its largest R&D center outside of the U.S. What do these companies know that most investors overlook?

Perhaps it is that Israel is now an integral -- and irreplaceable -- link in the global high-tech supply chain, without which many products used every day by companies and consumers around the world would not exist. What is often not visible, however, to either the casual observer or even the seasoned investor, is how very essential the role of Israeli high-tech companies has become.