UPDATE: This article, originally published at 10:56 a.m. on Oct. 12, 2015, has been updated with market reaction and information from Trian Fund Management.

NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- General Electric (GE - Get Report) stock spiked after Trian's Nelson Peltz revealed a $2.5 billion stake this month, but Standard & Poor's credit analysts say there's a risk the activist shareholder's influence will prompt the manufacturer to be less responsible with its money.

The ratings firm lowered its longer-term outlook for GE's credit score to negative from stable, while maintaining its current AA+ credit rating. Both Standard & Poor's and Moody's once assigned GE their top AAA scores, but cut them amid concerns about the stability of the company's lending business, GE Capital, during the financial crisis.

CEO Jeff Immelt has since worked to trim the size of that business, which generated a third of GE's revenue last year, while relying more on industrial operations such as health care equipment, locomotives and jet engines. Earlier this year, Immelt said GE would shed most of the lending business and increase total income from manufacturing to 90% by 2018, a 55% jump from last year. But achieving that while rewarding investors through a share buyback of as much as $50 billion, as Immelt plans, requires a delicate balance.

Must Read: How Virtu Gets Rich off Market Tantrums and You Can, Too

"The company's financial policy is currently evolving," S&P said in the report. "Trian's recent investment will increase the pressure on GE's management to adopt a more shareholder-friendly financial policy."

Consequently, GE's debt-to-earnings ratio may rise if the company seeks to return more value to shareholders through buybacks, which affect corporate solvency, S&P noted.

Indeed, while Trian pointed out that Peltz has a good relationship with GE management, the firm also said GE should increase share buybacks and said it "sees a path" to returning as much as 40% of current market value, or about $113 billion, to shareholders by the end of 2018. The company's shares have climbed 10% to $28.11 since Trian disclosed its stake, outpacing a 3.3% gain by the S&P 500.

Concerns that GE might overspend could still prove unfounded, however, said Nick Heymann, an analyst with William Blair. Peltz is more likely to fall in line with management since he hasn't requested a seat on the board and has commended GE's return to its industrial roots.

Trian will be "keen to keep GE focused on accelerating its cost-reduction actions and aggressively return to repurchasing its shares," according to a recent report from William Blair, which has a "market perform" rating, the equivalent of "neutral," on the stock.

The Fairfield, Conn.-based company has thus far proven "very successful" in divesting components of its financial arm, while clearing regulatory hurdles for manufacturing acquisitions such as the nearly $14 billion purchase of French turbine maker Alstom's (ALSMY) energy business, according to the report.

GE also appears well positioned to for its year-end, tax-free share exchange with former subsidiary Synchrony Financial (SYF - Get Report) , of which the manufacturer currently owns 85%.

The "sharp reduction" of financial services will help GE shed its onerous "Systemically Important Financial Institution" designation, or "SIFI," which currently limits its ability to borrow and take advantage of other financial opportunities, according to William Blair. Regulators imposed the SIFI designation on the largest U.S. financial institutions in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis -- precipitated by the collapse of New York investment bank Lehman Brothers -- in an attempt to prevent high-risk activities that could imperil the companies and damage the broader economy.

GE so far has a proven track record of effectively managing its debt, S&P said, and it has taken a balanced approach to spending. "In addition, GE has access to a wide range of debt and equity financing sources, which provides management with substantial operational and financial flexibility," the ratings firm said.