NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- The Escape SUV is Ford's (F - Get Report) best-selling SUV, and it ties the Fusion as the best-selling Ford vehicle period, behind the F-series trucks. In the first eight months of 2015, it sold 204,539 Escapes in the U.S., approximately flat year over year. That means it's on track for approximately 300,000 Escapes for the year.

In the last couple of years, one key complaint against all Ford vehicles was its infotainment system. Starting in the middle of 2015, with some 2016 models, Ford has launched a new infotainment system called SYNC-3. Over the next year or two, it will be in all Ford vehicles.

This new infotainment system from Ford is user friendly. Menu options are clearly labeled and rely on large, touch-friendly icons. Unfortunately, some of the secondary menu choices have smaller touch targets that can be a challenge to hit accurately when the car is bumping along.

The area where the system has made the most progress may be in searching for an address or point of interest. It now works like a Google (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) search, in that there is only one place to enter an address or whatever else you're seeking. The way the system converts it to directions is as good as anything this side of Android Auto.

Must Read: Facebook Drops Amid Second Outage: Tech Winners and Losers

The system fails compared to Android Auto, by not seeming to know establishments that opened within the last two years, including trendy cafes and restaurants Why doesn't this system update constantly, just like Google Maps?

The SYNC-3 system will get an update to enable both Google's Android Auto and Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) CarPlay.

The infotainment system has some moderate hardware issues. The screen is too far away from the driver for comfortable touchscreen reach. When you're driving and you reach for the screen, you have to lean forward, which makes the operation wobbly. The screen is also inserted in such a way that the near-lower corner is obstructed. Finally, and the worst part, is that there is a near-flat horizontal "tray" in front of the screen, with some knobs and buttons on it, that's made from a glossy piano-black material. It reflects sunlight into the driver's eyes.