Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Stifel Nicolaus’ Washington Crossing Advisors, is not optimistic about how the third quarter’s final numbers will look when they are tallied. And he isn't too positive for the rest of this and next year, either.

The best-performing sector in the past year is about to face headwinds in the near term relative to the rest of the market, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

McDonald's recently launched its all-day breakfast menu and it has been getting customers in the door, according to the numbers crunchers at Foursquare.

Only a few years makes a big difference when it comes to saving for retirement, according to the 2015 Wells Fargo Retirement Study

As Google’s holding company Alphabet prepares to report its most-recent quarterly earnings, the stock’s chart appears ready to break out, according to one leading technical analyst.

Ahead of the company’s earnings, shares of Procter & Gamble (PG) are approaching a major technical resistance level that could signal a change in the stock’s long-term direction, according to Katie Stockton, chief technical strategist at BTIG.

Yahoo Finance's Midday Movers is live each weekday at 12pm ET, covering all the latest news on the markets, the economy and the biggest stories of the day.

U.S. stocks (^DJI, ^GSPC, ^IXIC) are looking to end the week with an up day and while they are in the green, it's not by much. Still, the S&P 500 is flirting with its biggest weekly gain of 2015.

Get the Latest Market Data and News with the Yahoo Finance App

Here are some of the other stories Yahoo Finance is keeping an eye on today.

Record gun sales

Apparently it's a good time to be a firearms dealer. Despite, or perhaps because of several recent and tragic gun crimes garnering national attention, the FBI says they conducted close to one point eight million background checks in September alone. That number would translate to an all-time record for monthly gun sales in this country.

Spending gas savings

A new report from the JP Morgan Chase Institute (JPM) suggests Americans are spending the money they are saving at the gas pump this year. Government projections suggest the average household will save $700 at the pump this year and JP Morgan says 80% of that money is going back into the economy. The report which looked at actual bank account records, does not jibe with government data on retail and food service sales that declined in January and February and were flat in both April and June

Tesla's tough talk

While responding to reports that Apple (AAPL) was hiring away key members of his staff, Tesla (TSLA) chief Elon Musk turned the tables suggesting, "They [Apple] have hired people we’ve fired. We always jokingly call Apple the ‘Tesla Graveyard’ ...If you don’t make it at Tesla, you go work at Apple. I’m not kidding.”

Twitter courts advertisers

With Jack Dorsey officially back at the helm, Twitter (TWTR) is stepping up its efforts to court advertisers. The social network announced that it will allow marketers to easily place pre-roll video ads, and publishers will be able to collect a portion of the profit.



Snapchat and Star Wars

The Force is with Snapchat! The social media app helped Sphero, a maker of new Star Wars toys, launch a successful ad campaign for their new gadget. Sphero worked with five Snapchat influencers and generated over 10 million views in just 24 hours.