NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The number of new jobs in September was below economists' expectations, leading to a big selloff in the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) before it closed higher Friday.

On CNBC's "Fast Money" show, Steve Grasso, who works on the floor of the NYSE as director of institutional sales at Stuart Frankel, said he was flooded with sell orders going into the open. Because of all the early selling, it set up for an enormous bounce once things calmed down a bit, he explained.

Grasso reminded investors the Chinese market is closed for most of next week for a holiday, and that could pave the way to a continued rally in U.S. stocks. Beyond that he is not very optimistic, saying stocks seem likely to go lower. He is a buyer of the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLU) .

Guy Adami, managing director of stockmonster.com, said that Friday morning almost seemed a guarantee stocks would retest the lows last seen in October 2014, but the day proved to be difficult for short-sellers. The economy is definitely not as strong as most investors thought it was. Adami is a buyer of the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF (GDX) .

Must Read: Carl Icahn Is Wrong: There's No Debt Crisis Looming

Tim Seymour, managing partner of Triogem Asset Management, argued the economy is actually doing pretty well. He likes financial stocks, which sold off hard on Friday. Investors are pricing in the Fed not hiking rates this year. But with the already low valuations, this sector is a buy, especially now that expectations are so low for a rate hike. If it happens, these stocks will rally even more, he said.

The Fed is damned if it does hike, damned if it doesn't, according to Dan Nathan, co-founder and editor of riskreversal.com. Friday's action was impressive, but he said investors should use caution. He likes utility stocks, as well as the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLP) . Nathan said stocks have limited upside.

On Apple (AAPL - Get Report) , Brian White, global head of technology at Drexel Hamilton, explained why he assigned a $200 price target on the stock; it closed Friday at $110.38. While there are concerns over China, White said, "Apple fever is alive and well there" and he believes India will play a larger role for the company's sales over the next one to two years. Ex-cash, the stock trades at just eight times earnings, which is near the lower end of its range.

Seymour agreed on India and that investors should be more excited about China. iPhone estimates for next quarter will be important, he added. Grasso said $107.50 is a big level of support. The stock could get a bounce next week, but if the overall market declines Apple will probably go down, too. He's a buyer of the stock on the dips.

Apple hasn't been trading that well lately, Adami said, noting the stock underperformed the broader market on Friday. Despite this, investors can still stay long the stock as long as it's above $103.

Follow TheStreet.com on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.