NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- Those who have a pessimistic view of the global economy are ignoring the EU's turnaround and its benefit to major companies and other countries, including the U.S. and China.

The EU will be the catalyst that enables growth to exceed expectations. Many institutional investors will probably gravitate towards large-cap American stocks because the U.S. economy is seen as safer and more stable. To take advantage of the recovery, investors should buy shares of companies that are based in the U.S. but well-positioned to benefit from growth in Europe and worldwide. Among those are Boeing (BA - Get Report) , Starbucks (SBUX - Get Report) , GE (GE - Get Report) and General Motors (GM - Get Report) .

Most people believe that the U.S. is the world's largest economy and China is the second largest. But if the EU is viewed as one entity, it has the world's largest economy, and China comes in a close second with the U.S. in third.

Signs are that the EU's rebound, sparked by the euro zone's effective stimulus program, is continuing. In August, despite hand-wringing over China's problems, the number of people who were unemployed in the EU dropped by 33,000 versus July. Compared with August 2014, the unemployment total has tumbled by nearly 1.5 million.

Must Read: Chinese E-Commerce Giant JD.Com Opens First U.S. Office

Meanwhile, confidence among the EU's consumers and businesses rose in September. While the Euro Zone purchasing managers' index fell to 53.9 from 54.3 in August, this is well above the level separating contraction and expansion. New orders reached a five- month high.



Moreover, Spain and Italy, the two major components of the continent's problematic PIGS economies (that also include Portugal and Ireland) are gaining momentum. Europe's largest economy, Germany, continues to see steady growth.



Although the bears could grasp at negative economic data, there are signs that Europe's momentum is accelerating. Moreover, given the EU's high unemployment rate, Europe's recovery is probably only in the first or second inning.



Some observers say that China's problems will send the global economy into a tailspin.



But that's not likely. The strength of China's consumers and the Asian country's new stimulus measures which, if history is any guide, will probably be effective. Common sense also suggests that the Chinese economy is more influenced by the EU economy than the other way around.