NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- According to reports, Abu Dhabi is exploring selling assets and making strategic partnerships for the United Arab Emirates as the slump in oil prices continues to dent income.

Saudi Arabia is also pushing to diversify the country's economy and is reported to be issuing a $5 billion bond sale over the coming weeks. Kuwait's sovereign fund has suggested an asset sale to cover its increasing deficit.

"The spending patterns that a lot of national oil companies have pursued in the Middle East over the last decade were contingent on oil being much higher than it's going to be," said Stuart Glickman, analyst at S&P Capital IQ. "I think there's a realization now that perhaps we're not going to be heading back to that old environment any time soon."

Bloomberg reported Abu Dhabi National Energy and International Petroleum Investment are in talks with banks on options including strategic partnerships, share sales and asset disposals, according to unnamed sources.

Must Read: Oppenheimer's 10 Stocks to Buy in 10 S&P 500 Sectors

Bank of America (BAC - Get Report) , JPMorgan Chase (JPM - Get Report) and Credit Suisse (CS - Get Report) are among the banks pitching for mandates, while some government-related entities have already appointed advisers, according to the Bloomberg report.

One of the Emirate's largest investment funds, Mubadala Development, has already divested the majority of its assets held in a joint venture with General Electric (GE - Get Report) , including $3.6 billion of corporate and real estate loans. The UAE is the third largest of OPEC's oil producing nations and the source of roughly 6% of global oil reserves, but growth in the region has slowed along with plummeting oil prices.

The Gulf country slashed fuel subsidies back in August and is also working to bolster its new financial services hub based in Abu Dhabi. The financial center is following the lead of its Gulf neighbors Doha and Dubai and the UAE is planning to announce the details of its proposed regulatory structure by the end of the fourth quarter.

Oil's recent rally seems to have faded as global crude oil stockpiles hit record highs over the last few weeks. OPEC has agreed to cut investment in oil projects by roughly $130 billion through 2015 in an attempt to boost prices.