Developing ideas into realities is Microsoft's business. Now, the technology giant is inviting NFL fans to come up with those ideas.

The prizes in what Microsoft is calling the "Imagine Bowl," are enticing.

The contest invites fans to share their ideas on how technology can make the NFL game more efficient, more competitive, more entertaining, immersive and dynamic. Concepts can be submitted through Dec. 1 at www.ImagineBowl.com with an essay of 3,000 words or less and/or a one-two-minute video. Each of three finalists chosen by a panel of technology and football experts will receive a trip to San Francisco for Super Bowl 50, and tickets to the game. The grand prize winner will receive the trip and $50,000.

"We're looking for ideas that will have a positive impact on the game either on the field, in the stadium or in the home," said Jeff Tran, director of sports marketing and alliances at Microsoft. "We're always looking for new ways to improve the game through technology, and that is the true spirit of the Imagine Bowl, to go further than where we could have imagined."

As part of Microsoft's agreement with the league, NFL teams use Surface Pro 3 tablets on the sidelines to review plays. The tablets have been used as a test by officials to help with instant replay, as well. Next Gen Stats integration also is a key component on the company's fan enhancement menu.

Unquestionably, there are other technological elements that could be incorporated by the NFL or its broadcast partners. Improvements within the stadium or for the home experience for fans will occur.

The Imagine Bowl just might help spur such advancements.

"As a football fan, I get to come to work every day and do a dream job," Tran said. "I get to play a part in bringing together Microsoft's emerging technologies with the game I love, and I get to see firsthand how that makes coaches and players smarter, decision making faster, and the fan experience richer. That's what the Imagine Bowl is all about. We want to empower football fans to dream with us and be part of revolutionizing the game."

___

Online:

AP NFL website: www.pro32.ap.org and www.twitter.com/AP_NFL

www.ImagineBowl.com