NEW YORK (The Deal) -- General Electric's (GE - Get Report) GE Capital unit on Tuesday agreed to sell three businesses and a specialty finance loan portfolio valued at about $30 billion to Wells Fargo (WFC - Get Report) in the industrial conglomerate's latest move to substantially reduce its financial businesses and regulatory headaches in Washington.

"This is our largest transaction to date and a critical step in our efforts to reduce the size of GE Capital," said GE Capital CEO Keith Sherin in a statement.

The deal's price was not disclosed. It includes the sale of GE Capital Commercial Distribution Finance, which provides financing for recreational and off-road vehicles and boats, as well as the GE Capital Vendor Finance construction and technology business lending unit. As part of the deal, which is set to close in the first quarter of 2016, about 3,000 employees will be transferred.

A spokeswoman said that no U.S. regulatory approval was necessary for the transaction, though some minor approvals will be needed in Canada and overseas.

Must Read: GE Capital Selloff Tops Immelt's Goal With $32B Wells Fargo Deal

The deal is part of an ongoing effort -- officially launched in April -- to allow General Electric to have its GE Capital unit deregister from a so-called Systemically Important Financial Institution, or SIFI, categorization imposed upon it by a council of regulators in Washington.

The GE Capital division was designated as a SIFI in 2013 by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which was set up to identify emerging threats to the economy. The group of regulators argued that such a big, interconnected unit would have a hard time selling assets in a period of financial stress and that it could cause an "impairment" of financial markets "sufficiently severe to inflict significant damage to the broader economy."

To be de-designated, GE has been divesting a variety of financial assets, mostly from within its GE Capital unit, since April.

As those sale efforts have begun, Wells Fargo has already agreed to purchase the conglomerate's railcar-leasing business and a mortgage commercial real estate loan portfolio in the U.S., U.K. and Canada, valued at $9 billion. The sales to Wells Fargo, one of the largest U.S. banks, with $1.7 trillion in assets as of June, raises questions about whether the council's effort and GE's sales are actually dissipating systemic risk or just transferring it to another megabank.

One regulatory lawyer familiar with the situation noted that 2016 is likely the earliest GE Capital could be de-designated by the FSOC, largely because of the council's lengthy process for reviewing applications.

The sale comes after billionaire activist investor Nelson Peltz of Trian Fund Management earlier this month launched a campaign at the industrial company, putting GE CEO Jeffrey Immelt on the clock for a turnaround.