NEW YORK (The Deal) -- General Electric's (GE - Get Report) GE Capital unit on Tuesday agreed to sell three businesses and a specialty finance loan portfolio valued at about $30 billion to Wells Fargo (WFC - Get Report) as the industrial conglomerate seeks to substantially reduce its financial businesses and regulatory headaches in Washington.

The deal is part of an on-going effort -- officially launched in April -- to allow General Electric to extricate its financing business from the government's Systemically Important Financial Institution, or SIFI, designation. Most observers in Washington and elsewhere agree that the GE move is substantially reducing the industrial conglomerate's systemic risk footprint. However, the sale -- the third is a series of GE deals to Wells Fargo in recent months -- raises questions about whether overall risk to the economy is being dissipated, simply being transferred or even concentrated.

"It may be too strong to say that they are re-arranging the deck chairs on the Titanic," said one former Obama administration Treasury Department adviser. "But they are clearly moving around loans from one highly regulated entity to another and it looks like they are concentrating risk."

The deal is set to move three financing businesses with $32 billion in assets and about 3,000 employees to Wells Fargo and, according to a GE spokeswoman, U.S. regulators don't need to sign off on the deal, which is set to close in the first quarter of 2016. A Federal Reserve official declined to comment. A Wells Fargo spokeswoman also declined to comment.

Must Read: Is The Trans-Pacific Partnership a Goldmine For These Companies?

Nevertheless, it is the third major GE sale to Wells Fargo since the industrial giant began its GE Capital asset sale initiative. In recent months, GE also sold a railcar-leasing business and a commercial real estate loan portfolio in the U.S., U.K. and Canada, valued at $9 billion, to Wells Fargo. The acquisitions come as Wells Fargo is set to report quarterly financial results on Wednesday.

Cornelius Hurley, director of the Center for Finance, Law and Policy at Boston University, suggests that the moves make Wells Fargo, already designated as systemically important by regulators, more risky. "If they had picked up a bank with $32 billion in assets I think we would be having a very different conversation," said Hurley. "We ought to be moving in the direction of having no more systemically risky institutions."

In fact, while Wells Fargo can make acquisitions of assets and loan portfolios it is actually prohibited from buying whole banks. Gerard Cassidy, analyst at RBC Capital Markets Inc., notes in a recent report that Wells Fargo, along with Bank of America (BAC - Get Report) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM - Get Report) , are precluded from buying banks because they each control more than 10% of all U.S. deposits. The Federal Reserve prohibits acquisitions of banks by institutions that control more than 10% of all U.S. deposits.

