NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- An U.S. appeal court ruled in Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) favor in a trademark case against Samsung (SSNNF) which is now prohibited from using some features on its devices, Bloomberg reports.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. said the inventors would have to lose their patents to allow Samsung to continue to use their technology, such as the slide-to-unlock feature, autocorrect and quicklink.

"The public generally does not benefit when that competition comes at the expense of a patentee's investment-backed property right," the court said, Bloomberg added. "This is not a case where the public would be deprived of Samsung's products. Apple does not seek to enjoin the sale of lifesaving drugs, but to prevent Samsung from profiting from the unauthorized use of infringing features in its cellphones and tablets."

The ruling follows a ruling saying Samsung infringed on Apple patents, but at the time the judge refused to force Samsung to remove the features and opted instead for monetary damages, Bloomberg noted.

Samsung is appealing the infringement ruling and its case in pending in the Federal Circuit.

Apple stock is falling 0.84% to $115.43 in afternoon trading on Thursday.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates APPLE INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate APPLE INC (AAPL) a BUY. This is driven by a number of strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its solid stock price performance, impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, robust revenue growth and notable return on equity. Although no company is perfect, currently we do not see any significant weaknesses which are likely to detract from the generally positive outlook. "

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: