Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) has joined its PC hardware partners to promote Windows 10 computers ahead of the holiday shopping season. But their relations are strained since the software giant unveiled its first notebook computer, the Surface Book, on Oct. 6.

Dell, Hewlett-Packard (NYSE:HPQ), Intel (NASDAQ:INTC), Lenovo and Microsoft on Thursday launched their first joint advertising campaign to showcase the innovation available in the latest personal computers.

The six-week campaign, which begins Oct. 19 in the U.S. and China, features ads with the slogan "PC Does What?" (To appeal to young people, the slogan is stylized as "PC Does Whaaat?!") The campaign will include TV commercials, online ads, social media and native advertising, which are ads that look like online articles.

The ads will promote new PCs from Dell, HP and Lenovo that run sixth-generation Intel core processors and Microsoft's Windows 10 operating system. The companies hope to inspire consumers to upgrade their PCs by showing them what they're missing with the latest technology.

The campaign will conclude on Nov. 30 after Black Friday and the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, which kicks off the Christmas shopping season. The ad campaign will cost $70 million, according to the Associated Press.

"The possibilities of today's PCs are endless, but millions of people are still using outdated systems," Karen Quintos, Dell senior vice president and chief marketing officer, said in a statement.

Microsoft: Hardware Vendor

Dell, HP and Lenovo are backing the ad campaign despite the fact that Microsoft is encroaching on their turf by making its own PCs. Historically, Microsoft has focused on operating systems and left PC design to hardware partners. But with its Surface tablets and new Surface Book laptop, Microsoft is competing with the PC vendors.

Lenovo has refused to sell Microsoft's Surface Pro tablet because of competitive concerns.

"I said no to resell their product," Lenovo President and COO Gianfranco Lanci said at the recent Canalys Channels Forum, according to the Register, a technology news website. Microsoft "asked me more than one year ago, and I said no. I don't see any reason why I should sell a product from, within brackets, competition."

However, Dell and HP agreed to be global resellers for Microsoft's enterprise tablet-cum-notebook last month, selling the hardware wrapped in a service blanket, the Register said.

PC sales have stagnated as consumers and businesses have held on to their current machines for longer periods. Market research firms Gartner (NYSE:IT) and IDC last week estimated that PC shipments in the third quarter shriveled 7.7% and 10.8%, respectively, vs. Q3 2014.

Microsoft and its PC hardware partners are hoping the holiday shopping season will give computer sales a boost.

Microsoft is going after high-end consumers with its premium Surface Book notebook, which starts at $1,499. It will compete with Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) 13-inch MacBook Pro, which starts at $1,299.

RELATED:

Windows 10 takes share as Win 7 and 8 users upgrade.