NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Why would you want to buy Honeywell (HON - Get Report) in this uncertain stock market after its shares have fallen 19% since a 52-week high of $107.41 on Aug. 10?

Because this is one of the safest stocks you will own and it pays a nice dividend.

Honeywell reports earnings before the bell Friday. The market has been jittery for months but Honeywell, whose shares closed around $98 Wednesday, is still an outperformer, down only 1.7% for the year to date. Analysts at Oppenheimer have a $117 price target on Honeywell shares.

This price target would imply some 18% gains from Honeywell's current price of around $99. If share reach the high target of $124, they would yield returns of more than 25%.

Must Read: Netflix Is Spending Money Much Faster Than It's Making It

Honeywell has outperformed the Dow Jones Industrial Averages (DJI) -- down 5% in 2015 -- and S&P 500 (SPX) index, down 3%.

A major rival to General Electric (GE - Get Report) , Honeywell has already demonstrated its resiliency to macro pressure and weak economic conditions, says Oppenheimer, while citing Honeywell's accelerated organic growth in its second quarter.

Honeywell has embraced new technologies and various product launches aimed at growing market share. Unlike recent acquisitions by GE aimed at driving revenue growth, Honeywell's business continues to grow and make money for investors without such external factors, demonstrating the strength of its underlying business.

With the company making sales and marketing investments to grow its presence in emerging markets, Honeywell's advantages in technology, manufacturing, aerospace and power generation systems bodes well for future profits. And investors would do well to buy these shares ahead of Friday's results.

For the quarter, the average analyst earnings-per-share estimate is $1.55 a share on revenue of $9.86 billion, compared to the year-ago quarter when Honeywell earned $1.47 a share on revenue of $10.11 billion. For the full year, earnings are projected to climb 10% year over year to $6.11 a share, while revenue of $39.25 billion would mark a year-over-year decline of 2.6%.

In short, investors looking for a safe place to put their money should consider Honeywell, which trades at just 14 times consensus 2016 estimates of $6.68 a share. Not only is that price to earnings multiple three points lower than the S&P 500 index, it implies EPS growth of 9% above projected 2015 levels -- almost three percentage points higher than the projected EPS growth of S&P 500 stocks.



Combined with its 51.75-cent quarterly dividend that yields 2.20% annually, Honeywell overflows with sweet value.