NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- Now entering its last year before an all-new replacement arrives, the Volkswagen Touareg has aged well. For some reason, many of the other German SUVs don't look particularly good, with many gimmicky angles and overly busy styling.

The Touareg is essentially the same car as the Porsche Cayenne, and the Audi Q7 was the closest of cousins until the all-new Audi Q7 arrived in Europe earlier this year (U.S. gets it in January 2016). The Volkswagen version looks best, with its restrained design details. It is often featured in brown metallic and a soft brown/beige two-tone interior. Very classy.

In the Fall of 2014, the VW Touareg received a small refresh, with a refined front and rear lights, plus some assisted driving technology. It is offered in gasoline and diesel versions.

Writing about the VW Touareg is boring because the drive is so friction-free. The size and interior space of the car also feel just right.



The gas-powered Touareg tested for this article was exceptional, but it was missing some of the character of a diesel engine. The diesel engine yields much better fuel economy, plus a more pleasing torque that reduces the transmission's propensity for downshifting.

Must Read: 3 Stocks Warren Buffett and Peter Lynch Should Own

The gas model gets 16 miles per gallon in city driving, 22 miles per gallon on the highway. The diesel is rated at 21 miles per gallon in the city and 29 miles per gallon on the highway, while delivering superior torque and fewer downshifts. Get the diesel.

The other downside is that this is one of the few Volkswagens that don't get Google's (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) Android Auto or Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) CarPlay. The Touareg will get this technology in the version that will appear in dealerships possibly one year from now. That said, the screen is aesthetically pleasing and easy to use, except for the navigation system. The navigation system is as difficult as for almost any car lacking Android Auto or Apple CarPlay.