NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The market's late summer squall carried over into September, but not all individual investors ran for safety. A lot of them took advantage of folks exiting their positions to pick up familiar names like Apple (AAPL - Get Report) and Disney (DIS - Get Report) , said JJ Kinahan, chief strategist at TD Ameritrade (AMTD - Get Report) .

TD Ameritrade's Investor Movement Index, or IMX, saw a steep decline to 4.76, as volatility within the equity markets persisted in September. September saw the second-largest decrease in the index since the bank began publishing it in December 2012, according to the company. Many of the widely held positions within its client accounts saw decreases in their volatility relative to the market, which pushed the IMX lower.

Nevertheless, despite the heightened volatility, TD Ameritrade clients were net buyers for the month of September. While this typically would work to increase the IMX reading, in September the volatility in many of those companies decreased at a faster rate than that of the overall market which equated to a lower relative volatility and a lower IMX.



As for individual stocks, Apple was a popular net buy in September, according to the company. The tech giant held a public event to announce a slew of updates to existing products early in the month and that certainly helped it swim against the tide.

"People tend to have real fondness for Apple," said Kinahan. "Even those that don't participate in some of the rest of the market, they participate in Apple."

Must Read: Why Apple Could Go as Low as $60

Furthermore, basic materials issuers ExxonMobil (XOM - Get Report) and Chevron (CVX - Get Report) -- both dividend payers yielding over 4% -- were also net buys. Additional popular names purchased during the period included Netflix (NFLX) , Disney (DIS - Get Report) and Twitter (TWTR) , according to TD Ameritrade.

Regarding companies with net sales in September, Kinahan pointed to JC Penney (JCP) and Motorola Solutions (MSI) . He said TD Ameritrade clients seemed to take advantage of new 52-week highs in these names by lightening their positions.



"September was a rough month for stocks overall, so when people saw names bucking the trend and trading near 52-week highs, they realized it's time to pull the trigger, take some profits and look for some things," said Kinahan.