NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- GoPro (GPRO - Get Report) shares are jumping 1.34% to $34.10 on Thursday morning after Wall Street analysts said its future looks bright, and after the announcement that its app will be featured on Apple's (AAPL) new Apple Watch, Fortune reports.

Analysts at Dougherty & Company and Wedbush pointed out several things. First, there were concerns around the company after China's currency devaluation in August. Then, Ambarella (AMBA), GoPro's supplier, said that it expects sales in the wearable camera segment to drop year-over-year, Fortune noted.

However, the company is "not in trouble, but actually alive and well," analysts said, adding that the company is in the perfect position to grow.

The company has room for growth in China, where action cameras were recently introduced. In addition, analysts see potential in markets including Europe, Brazil, and India.

Separately, Apple's CEO Tim Cook announced yesterday that the GoPro app will be available in the new Apple Watch models, which will allow users to take photos on a GoPro camera from the smartwatch, The Wall Street Journal reports.

Based in San Mateo, CA, GoPro develops hardware and software solutions to alleviate consumer pain points associated with capturing, managing, sharing, and enjoying engaging content.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates GOPRO INC as a Hold with a ratings score of C-. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate GOPRO INC (GPRO) a HOLD. The primary factors that have impacted our rating are mixed – some indicating strength, some showing weaknesses, with little evidence to justify the expectation of either a positive or negative performance for this stock relative to most other stocks. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its notable return on equity, robust revenue growth and largely solid financial position with reasonable debt levels by most measures. However, as a counter to these strengths, we also find weaknesses including a generally disappointing performance in the stock itself and premium valuation."

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: