NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Apple (AAPL - Get Report) were gaining 2.08% to $112.44 on Thursday, a day after the company introduced the new generation of iPhones, the iPad Pro, and the new Apple TV with Siri voice control and support for apps and games.

Numerous analyst firms sent notes to investors with their take on the events, the new devices and, Apple's new iPhone leasing program on Thursday morning.

Pacific Crest maintained its "sector weight" rating and $110.15 price target for Apple, and recommended owning the stock.

Pacific Crest analysts said their view of the iPhone 6S, Apple Watch, and iPad remained the same, but that their view of the Apple TV "deteriorated slightly," as they don't believe "mobile-like apps" will be the center of tomorrow's TVs.

Credit Suisse maintained its "outperform" rating and $145 price target for Apple following the event, saying the new devices "point to continued innovation at Apple in hardware, software, and services."

"Apple released updates to its 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch iPhones in the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus, as widely expected," Credit Suisse analysts wrote. "We believe this will continue to drive a powerful upgrade cycle. Given our finding of 250mn-260mn iPhone build in the Asia Trip 2015 note, we are comfortable with our CY15/CY16 iPhone estimates of 234mn/241mn. As such, it supports our proprietary installed base analysis."

Piper Jaffray reiterated its "buy" rating and $172 price target in a note to investors, according to Barron's.

Analyst Gene Munster wrote, "Today's Apple announcements on the iPhone 6S, new Apple TV and iPad Pro were largely as expected. That said, we believe there is substance in the new products, most notably that the iPhone 6S should have enough appeal, along with the lower price for existing iPhone 6 and Plus, to allow Apple to continue to gain share at the high end of the phone market."

Munster continued, "We are expecting 4% y/y iPhone unit growth vs. the Street at flat in 2016. Updates to Apple TV should add a little less than 1% to Street estimates in 2016 (not in our model). Finally, the new iPad Pro is incremental but does not change our belief that iPad units will be down 4% in 2016. We maintain our Overweight rating and $172 price target."

TheStreet Ratings team rates APPLE INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate APPLE INC (AAPL) a BUY. This is driven by a few notable strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its solid stock price performance, impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, robust revenue growth and notable return on equity. Although no company is perfect, currently we do not see any significant weaknesses which are likely to detract from the generally positive outlook."

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: