NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- GE (GE - Get Report) shares are higher by 1.36% to $28.41 in pre-market trading on Friday after the industrial conglomerate posted its third quarter fiscal 2015 earnings results that exceeded analysts' estimates.

For the latest quarter, the company earned 29 cents a share on revenue of $31.68 billion.

Analysts had expected the company to earn 26 cents a share on revenue of $28.57 billion.

In the same period the year before, the company earned 38 cents a share on revenue of $32.1 billion.

The recent quarter was helped by positive aviation and transportation earnings which offset year-over-year decline in its oil and gas segment.

TheStreet's Jim Cramer, Portfolio Manager of the Action Alerts PLUS Charitable Trust Portfolio commented on GE earnings this morning, saying: "This was an excellent quarter and verified everything I hoped for when I recommended it in our video yesterday. I particularly liked the organic industrial revenue growth of 4%...terrific. With the help of Nelson Peltz, GE CEO Jeff Immelt is going to take this company's stock much higher."

Overall, the company has been refocusing on its core industrial units and have been working to shed its finance arm.

"GE is executing and is on track to deliver on its 2015 goals," CEO Jeff Immelt stated. "Our portfolio transformation is happening at an unprecedented pace."

The company earlier this week sold a huge portion of its U.S. commercial lending business to Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC), worth $30 billion.

So far, the company has sold about $126 billion in assets. GE plans to exit $200 billion in total assets.

Regarding spinning off Synchrony Financial (SYF), GE's consumer finance business, the Federal Reserve on Wednesday gave Synchrony approval to separate from GE, Barron's.com said.

"Our GE Capital exit plan is ahead of plan and we expect GE Capital dividends to the parent (company) of approximately $3 billion for 2015," Immelt added.

Through the exchange and dividends, the company said it is on track to return $30 billion to shareholders in 2015.

In addition, activist investor Nelson Peltz of Trian Fund Management earlier this month took a $2.5 billion stake in GE.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates GENERAL ELECTRIC CO as a Buy with a ratings score of B. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) a BUY. This is driven by multiple strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, good cash flow from operations, expanding profit margins and solid stock price performance. We feel its strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had somewhat weak growth in earnings per share.

You can view the full analysis from the report here: GE

GE data by YCharts