Of the many smart people credited with saying "those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it," none appears to have been a serious investor. Investors study historic chart patterns in order to repeat past market successes, or at least to find past clues that may help point out equally historic stock moves today.

The flat base Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) built from November 1994 to March 1995 is a good one for the scrapbook.

It's All In The Chart

The base took shape as the Nasdaq composite index started to flatten after turning in two solid rallies between October 1992 and October 1993. The S&P 500, which had been running cooler than the Nasdaq, also decided to coast.

Microsoft had already earned its credentials as a leader. It had recently risen 556% from a September 1989 breakout to a January 1992 peak. The stock then wobbled through a 26-month consolidation, beginning another advance in April 1994.

Shares rose 67% from a February low to a mid-November peak, then flattened out and built a 15-week flat base during a period of uncertainty and expectation. A flat consolidation after such a healthy run-up is a positive sign.

Another beauty of the base was its tight trade vs. a wobbly market. The steadiness was doubly impressive because Microsoft had agreed in mid-October to acquire Quicken-developer Intuit for $1.5 billion. What at the time would have been the largest software-industry acquisition was eventually blocked by the Justice Department.

The stock notched the base's left side high at 65.13 on Nov. 15, and volume was quiet across most of the base's 15 weeks.

Small surges in daily volume — such as Dec. 9 and Dec. 12 — generally showed the stock holding up nicely above the key 50-day moving average (or 10-week line on a weekly chart).

The stock fell more than 4% in heavy trade Dec. 20, cutting below its 10-week moving average (1). Yet it quietly retook support in mid-January, just before strong volume kicked in and boosted shares to a new high. This ultimately set the base's buy point at 65.35; a 65.23 buy point, 10 cents above the left side's high, was also sound.

Microsoft pulled back in a series of very tight daily closes through February. The stock slipped back below its 10-week line, undercut its prior low, shook out additional investors and cocked the trigger for a breakout.

Volume ramped up as shares topped the base's buy point on March 7 and 8. The relative strength line, which compares a stock's price action to the S&P 500, confirmed the breakout by punching to new highs.

You can see the RS line in blue on every chart in Investors.com. Charts are accessible via IBD Stock Checkup .

At the time of the breakout, the PC software pioneer scored a 94 Earnings Per Share Rating and a solid 84 Relative Price Strength rank on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 99 (highest). The Accumulation/Distribution Rating was neutral at C but jumped to B right after the March 7 breakout.

Over the next 57 months, Microsoft charged ahead 1,370%.