NEW YORK (TheStreet) - Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN - Get Report) announced this week it will stop all sales of Apple Inc. (AAPL - Get Report) and Google Inc. (GOOGL - Get Report) streaming products (Apple TV and Chromecast) by the end of the month.

Amazon also sells its own streaming device, Fire TV, and says that its streaming product, Prime Instant Video, doesn't work well on Apple TV and Chromecast. The e-commerce leader said that the move was aimed at preventing "customer confusion."

Going forward, which of these three huge tech stocks should you buy? We ordered them from least attractive to most attractive, per TheStreet Ratings, TheStreet's proprietary ratings tool.

TheStreet Ratings projects a stock's total return potential over a 12-month period including both price appreciation and dividends. Based on 32 major data points, TheStreet Ratings uses a quantitative approach to rating over 4,300 stocks to predict return potential for the next year. The model is both objective, using elements such as volatility of past operating revenues, financial strength, and company cash flows, and subjective, including expected equities market returns, future interest rates, implied industry outlook and forecasted company earnings.

Must Read: Amazon’s Apple TV, Chromecast Ban Shows How Far Streaming Device War Has Come

Buying an S&P 500 stock that TheStreet Ratings rated a buy yielded a 16.56% return in 2014, beating the S&P 500 Total Return Index by 304 basis points. Buying a Russell 2000 stock that TheStreet Ratings rated a buy yielded a 9.5% return in 2014, beating the Russell 2000 index, including dividends reinvested, by 460 basis points last year.

When you're done, be sure to read about these top-rated dividend stocks to buy. Year-to-date returns are based on October 2, 2015 prices as of 10:50 am.

Amazon.com, Inc. operates as an online retailer in North America and internationally. It operates in two segments, North America and International.

TheStreet Ratings team rates AMAZON.COM INC as a Hold with a ratings score of C. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate AMAZON.COM INC (AMZN) a HOLD. The primary factors that have impacted our rating are mixed - some indicating strength, some showing weaknesses, with little evidence to justify the expectation of either a positive or negative performance for this stock relative to most other stocks. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its increase in net income, robust revenue growth and largely solid financial position with reasonable debt levels by most measures. However, as a counter to these strengths, we find that the company's return on equity has been disappointing.

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows:

The net income growth from the same quarter one year ago has significantly exceeded that of the S&P 500 and the Internet & Catalog Retail industry. The net income increased by 173.0% when compared to the same quarter one year prior, rising from -$126.00 million to $92.00 million.

AMZN's revenue growth trails the industry average of 33.8%. Since the same quarter one year prior, revenues rose by 19.9%. Growth in the company's revenue appears to have helped boost the earnings per share.

41.10% is the gross profit margin for AMAZON.COM INC which we consider to be strong. It has increased from the same quarter the previous year. Regardless of the strong results of the gross profit margin, the net profit margin of 0.39% trails the industry average.

AMAZON.COM INC reported significant earnings per share improvement in the most recent quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago. This company has reported somewhat volatile earnings recently. But, we feel it is poised for EPS growth in the coming year. During the past fiscal year, AMAZON.COM INC swung to a loss, reporting -$0.54 versus $0.58 in the prior year. This year, the market expects an improvement in earnings ($1.62 versus -$0.54).

The company's current return on equity has slightly decreased from the same quarter one year prior. This implies a minor weakness in the organization. Compared to other companies in the Internet & Catalog Retail industry and the overall market, AMAZON.COM INC's return on equity significantly trails that of both the industry average and the S&P 500.

You can view the full analysis from the report here: AMZN