This story has been updated from Oct. 6, 2015 to include updated Tesla information.



NEW YORK (TheStreet) - Driverless cars are getting increasing attention, particularly with the recent CBS' (CBS) 60 Minutes segment on Mercedes-Benz's self-driving car this past Sunday.

More than 33,000 people each year die from car accidents, primarily due to driver error. It's a problem that proponents of driverless cars say can be minimized with the advances in auto technology.

While the thought of a self-driving car still seems too futuristic to some, it's an ambition that might make its way into the mainstream sooner than you think. More than two dozen companies around the world - many of them public -- have plans, are willing to invest in, or may even have a test model ready of a driverless car, according to a report from CB Insights.

The data and predictive analytics firm recently put out a report laying out where each company is in its endeavor to launch a driverless car.

Must Read: Cantor Fitzgerald Picks 9 Tech Stocks to Get a Boost from Foreign Exchange

"The arrival of autonomous vehicles will trigger the auto-industry's largest shake-up since its inception," the Sept. 25 report said.

"While Google (GOOGL - Get Report) (GOOG - Get Report) is the most talked-about player in the space, we identified 25 other major corporations or corporate brands ... that are involved in the driverless car space. While some players are setting up funds to invest in new technology involving autonomous cars, others are trying to build self-driving vehicles from the ground up," the report noted.

Silicon Valley is swiftly becoming the "new Detroit for self-driving cars," as the 60 Minutes segment put it, but for investors, how can you get in on the action before it drives off into the sunset? Luckily, there are plenty of car makers and technology companies finding their way in the self-driving car phenomenon.

Here's 10 public companies listed in the U.S. that have driverless car endeavors.





1. Apple (AAPL - Get Report)

Is there anything that Apple doesn't want to dominate? From computers to phones to televisions to "pencils," the rumors of the Cupertino, Calif.-based tech giant' driverless car are ramping up.

Apple has already been reported to be creating an electric car, dubbed "Titan," with target ship dates for 2019, The Wall Street Journal reported last month.

However, The Guardian reported in August that it learned Apple was scouting locations in the San Francisco area to test a self-driving car. The company has also recruited engineers experienced with self-driving technology from Tesla (TSLA - Get Report) , Volkswagen (VLKAY) and microchip maker Nvidia (NVDA) , among other automaker recruits.

"The car is the ultimate mobile device," Apple Senior vice president Jeff Williams said at a re/code Conference in May, in response to a question about what else the company will do with its huge cash hoard beyond share buybacks and dividends. "We're exploring a lot of different markets."



