NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Apple (AAPL - Get Report) were gaining 1.4% to $115.07 Monday following a report that the iPhone maker is accelerating its electric car project with a targeted ship date of 2019.

Apple designated the electric car project, code-named Titan, a "committed project" internally, according to The Wall Street Journal. The leaders of the team were reportedly given permission to triple the 600-person team currently working on the vehicle.

The first rumored car likely won't be fully autonomous, according to the Journal, though the Cupertino-based company has hired experts in driverless cars. Long terms plans for the project reportedly include full autonomy.

Apple hired experts in batteries and machine-vision since the beginning of the year to reportedly work on Titan. Employees from elsewhere in the company were also reassigned to the project since its existence was reported earlier this year.

Recent reports said an Apple lawyer met with the Department of Motor Vehicles in California to discuss the autonomous vehicle testing regulations the state put into effect in September 2014.

The release of watchOS 2, the new software for the Apple Watch that allows the smartwatch to run native apps, would also be helping Apple's stock today.

TheStreet Ratings team rates APPLE INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

"We rate APPLE INC (AAPL) a BUY. This is driven by a number of strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its solid stock price performance, impressive record of earnings per share growth, compelling growth in net income, robust revenue growth and notable return on equity. Although the company may harbor some minor weaknesses, we feel they are unlikely to have a significant impact on results. "

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows: