NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stocks started higher Wednesday, with major U.S. indices opening up roughly 1%. But as the day wore on stocks slipped and the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) ultimately fell 1.4%.

The market's moves seem to be knee-jerk reactions to central bank policies, Guy Adami, managing director of stockmonster.com, said on CNBC's "Fast Money" TV show, referring to China's new stimulus plans.

Although the overall market did not perform all that well on the day, Adami pointed out JetBlue Airways (JBLU) continues to do well. If the market improves, this stock will almost surely move higher.

Wednesday's selloff seemed to be caused by uncertainty regarding the Federal Reserve, according to Tim Seymour, managing partner of Triogem Asset Management. The better-than-expected Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey data gave the impression the Fed could hike rates at a time when GDP estimates are moving higher.

Must Read: Warren Buffett's Top 10 Dividend Stocks

Elsewhere in the world, the Nikkei shot up 7.7% on Wednesday. Seymour said the index could give up a lot of those gains in Thursday's session, so investors should be careful.

Pete Najarian, co-founder of optionmonster.com and trademonster.com, pointed out that financial stocks haven't been trading well, despite the supposed rate-hike catalyst coming in September or December. He added that the Volatility Index remains elevated.

This volatility might be good for traders but it wreaks havoc on investors. Karen Finerman, president of Metropolitan Capital Advisors, said she's no fan of volatility and is hoping it ends sometime soon. The Fed's meeting next week can give investors clarity, thus reducing volatility.

This week, however, the big focus was Wednesday's Apple (AAPL - Get Report) event where the company introduced refreshed versions of the iPad, iPhone and Apple TV.

The Apple TV won't be that big of a deal, with estimates for the device to make up just 3.3% of revenue, Seymour pointed out. However, he stands by Apple, saying it's a great company with a sound valuation and attractive dividend.



