NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) unveiled its first laptop Tuesday, the Surface Book, along with new generations of other devices from tablets to smartphones as the company dives deeper into the hardware business.

Executives targeted Apple (AAPL - Get Report) competitors as they showed off their new products at an event in New York, saying that, for example, the Surface Book is twice as fast as the MacBook Pro, the Seattle Times reported. The new laptop has a detachable screen and will go on sale this month.

The Lumia 950 and 950 XL will be available next month and will be the first new smartphones since Microsoft decided in July to reboot its struggling phone hardware business, according to the newspaper.

The new laptop, tablet and smartphones are aimed at attracting consumers to the Windows 10 operating system, which is central to CEO Satya Nadella's strategy of competing with Apple and Google (GOOGL - Get Report) through "an ecosystem of gadgets and cloud-based software and services that work together," Bloomberg reported.

Must Read: Apple Supplier Skyworks Makes $2 Billion Cash Bet on PMC-Sierra

Microsoft gained less than a percent in a down market to close Tuesday at $46.75. Apple rose less than a percent to $111.31 and Alphabet, Google's new holding company, was little changed at $671.64.

Twitter (TWTR - Get Report) CEO Jack Dorsey wasted no time in rolling out a multimedia update to revive growth and appease shareholders.



After Dorsey was confirmed as Twitter's top executive Monday, he launched Project Lightning, which Re/code Tuesday called the company's "most important product update ever." The new feature is a curated group of tweets about a specific topic, which Twitter is calling a "Moment." Moments will include text, photos and videos that are related to an ongoing event and are selected by an editorial team at the company.

Twitter has deals in place with an unspecified number of companies to run ads and promote Moments, and it's working with publishers including The New York Times, AdAge reported.

Twitter fell 1.9% to $27.62 in a down market, paring Monday's gains after the Dorsey appointment.

Tesla (TSLA - Get Report) fell 1.9% to $241.46 after Morgan Stanley said the new Model X is too expensive, meaning initial sales won't meet expectations.

Analyst Adam Jonas cut his price target on Tesla to $450 from $465. He wrote that unless Elon Musk's Tesla introduces a cheaper model of the $132,000 Model X soon, he doesn't expect it to deliver more than 20,000 of the new SUVs in 2016.

Radware (RDWR) was Tuesday's top decliner on the Nasdaq, plunging 19% to $14.01.

The cyber security and application delivery solutions company had warned Monday it will report lower results for the third quarter than previously expected, cutting its EPS projection by more than half.

Oppenheimer subsequently downgraded its rating on the company to Perform, from Outperform, according to Benzinga. Although details for the earnings miss weren't given, it's probably due to "execution issues in the lumpy carrier business," the Web site cited Oppenheimer analyst Ittai Kidron as writing.