NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Cirrus Logic (CRUS - Get Report), an Austin, Texas-based semiconductor manufacturer that provides chips to the Apple (AAPL - Get Report) iPhone, soared by 14.4% Friday, closing at $31.03, as the new iPhone 6s and 6s Plus hit the stores.

According to an analysis by ifixit, the new iPhones contain two chips from Cirrus Logic as opposed to one chip from Cirrus in the earlier version of Apple's marquee product.

Meanwhile, Apple shares finished the day at $114.71, a loss of less than 1%. At Apple stores around the country, including the company's flagship store in downtown San Francisco, the new pink iPhone proved especially popular with consumers, according to a Reuters report.

TheStreet's Scott Gamm reports on the scene in New York as the new iPhones hit the stores.

Must Read: 10 Stocks George Soros Is Buying in 2015

BlackBerry (BBRY - Get Report) stock dropped by 7.7% Friday, closing at $6.49, as the company reported disappointing financial results for its fiscal second quarter.

The company also unveiled plans to produce a smartphone based on Google's (GOOGL - Get Report) (GOOG - Get Report) Android operating system.

For its second quarter, BlackBerry reported net income of $51 million, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $490 million, TheStreet reported. Excluding one-time items, BlackBerry lost 13 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had forecast BlackBerry to lose 9 cents a share on $611 million in sales.

Read TheStreet's full report about BlackBerry's plan to pin its future to Android -- and whether that strategy will succeed.

Google shares dropped by 2.3% Friday to $640.15 as the company appears to be under federal antitrust scrutiny again, according to a report by Bloomberg News.

"Google is back under U.S. antitrust scrutiny as officials ask whether the tech giant stifled competitors' access to its Android mobile-operating system, said two people familiar with the matter," the news service reported.

"The Federal Trade Commission reached an agreement with the Justice Department to spearhead an investigation of Google's Android business, the people said," according to Bloomberg. "FTC officials have met with technology company representatives who say Google gives priority to its own services on the Android platform, while restricting others, added the people, who asked for anonymity because the matter is confidential."

Twitter (TWTR) stock dropped by 4.9% Friday, closing at $25.29, as the company continues its hunt for a permanent CEO.

The micro-blogging site also introduced a new polling feature, according to SiliconBeat.