NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The streaming set-top box wars are in full force. And even though Amazon's (AMZN - Get Report) latest Fire TV has some massive improvements over the first generation model, it's too soon to call a winner here.

Amazon was kind enough to give me a review unit and after opening and setting it up, it's easy enough to see the improvements over the first-generation model. The most obvious is the inclusion of Alexa, which Amazon is seemingly positioning as the heart and brains of its ecosystem.

Much like Apple's (AAPL - Get Report) Siri, Alexa, first introduced on the Amazon Echo, is a voice-controlled assistant. On the Fire TV, Alexa allows you to ask for weather, sports scores, traffic and music.

I did not have issues with the picture cutting out on my television, but I recognize that others have, with it being more than just a few. This is something Amazon can't get wrong, especially if it's going to stop selling the new Apple TV and Google (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) Chromecast 2 on its website. If your product doesn't work, providing alternatives while you fix the problem is a sign you care about your customers. Otherwise, it just comes across as bewildering.

Must Read: Here's What It Looked Like Inside Tesla's Incredible Model X Event

The sound quality is pretty decent, as it is with most Amazon hardware, with the new Fire TV offering Dolby Digital surround sound. However, when you watch something on Netflix or another non-Amazon service, the sound quality gets worse. Amazon has publicly said it's working to correct the problem. Yet again, it feels like Amazon may have rushed the product to market, while fixing the problems as they arrive.

I, unlike other reviewers, did not have an extremely hard time putting the batteries into the remote, though it was a little more difficult than I would've liked. Luckily, you don't have to do this too often.



Unlike Siri on the new Apple TV, Alexa can't quite search for content using actors' names or genres, though Amazon has said that feature is coming next year. It's an awesome feature to have and given the fact that this is being positioned as a content consumption device, it probably should have been included at the release. Otherwise, it feels like Amazon rushed getting the Fire TV out before it was complete.