Watch the newest film trailer for "Steve Jobs," starring Michael Fassbender, Kate Winslet and Seth Rogen. Photo: Universal Pictures

In “Steve Jobs,” screenwriter Aaron Sorkin and director Danny Boyle portray the life of the mythical Apple Computer AAPL 1.53 % co-founder as a three-act drama based around product launches.

Michael Fassbender plays Jobs, who died in 2011, as an arrogant, self-absorbed jerk who abandoned his first child and still feels betrayed that as an infant he was placed for adoption.

Read more: Kate Winslet Stars in the Highly Anticipated Film ‘Steve Jobs’

The film, which opens Oct. 9, is filled with the clever wordplay, machine-gun verbal abuse and pop-culture non sequiturs that became Sorkin trademarks in “The Social Network” and the television series “The West Wing” and “The Newsroom.”

In a twist on the traditional biopic, the script is more character study than biography, focusing on three moments in Jobs’s career. We go backstage for tense, character-revealing conversations before the flashy introductions of the Macintosh computer in 1984, the ill-fated NeXT computer in 1988 and the iMac in 1998.

Along the way there are flashbacks but not a whole life story. We watch the evolution of Jobs’s difficult relationships with his daughter Lisa (age 5 in the first scene), her mother Chrisann Brennan and several close colleagues. Kate Winslet says Mr. Sorkin uses her character—Jobs confidante and Apple marketing executive Joanna Hoffman—as a composite of the strong women in his life.

In the opening act, Jobs snarls at Apple engineer Andy Hertzfeld (Michael Stuhlbarg) over a glitch before the Mac launch: “You had three weeks! The universe was created in one-third of that time.” Mr. Hertzfeld replies: “Well, someday you’ll have to tell us how you did it.”

Apple executive John Sculley jokes with Jobs during a heart-to-heart meeting before the NeXT launch. “Don’t play stupid. You can’t pull it off,” says Mr. Sculley, portrayed by Jeff Daniels of “The Newsroom.”

In the final act, longtime friend and company co-founder Steve Wozniak (Seth Rogen) enlists a Beatles reference to unload decades of frustration about his unsung role in Apple. “I’m tired of being Ringo when I know I was John,” he says to Jobs.

ENLARGE Director Danny Boyle, left, and screenwriter Aaron Sorkin on the set of ‘Steve Jobs.’ Photo: Universal Pictures

The lines were invented for the movie. “If any of them are real, it’s a remarkable coincidence. I wasn’t there for any of it,” Mr. Sorkin says. “By and large, people don’t speak in dialogue. People’s lives don’t play out in a series of scenes that form a narrative.”

The backstage scenes also are imagined but the topics the characters discuss are based on research. Mr. Sorkin relied heavily on the 600-page “Steve Jobs,” by the Apple co-founder’s handpicked biographer Walter Isaacson. The book was released shortly after Jobs’s death. Mr. Sorkin interviewed dozens of people including Lisa Brennan, who didn’t talk with Mr. Isaacson for the biography.

The screenwriter hadn’t come up with a narrative structure until he heard that just before the 1984 launch, Jobs was furious that his engineers couldn’t get the Mac to say “hello” to the audience. He wanted it to be the first computer to introduce itself. Mr. Sorkin decided to compress the frictions in Jobs’s life into frenzied clashes before three key product announcements. After all, product launches themselves were among his innovations.

The film spends little time on topics that don’t serve its theme. There’s nothing about Pixar, the animation company Mr. Jobs built, or his marriage to Laurene Powell and their family. There is no mention of his battle with cancer.

Mr. Sorkin’s collection of intense conversations presented a challenge for Mr. Boyle, known for visually striking films like “Slumdog Millionaire.” He came aboard “Steve Jobs” last year when David Fincher, director of “The Social Network,” dropped out.

“It’s 185 pages of dialogue with no instruction whatsoever,” Mr. Boyle says. “It’s just three acts. Day, interior. Six characters. So it looks like a prison, straight away—because there’s no room for anything else.” He needed to add dazzle to the dialogue much the way that Mr. Sorkin’s “West Wing” directors animated his chatty characters: by having them “walk and talk” down corridors.

Mr. Boyle made the three acts feel distinct by shooting each on a different medium: the Mac introduction at the 1984 Apple shareholders’ meeting is on home-movie-style 16-millimeter film, the NeXT launch is on cinematic 35-millimeter, and the iMac event was shot with high-end digital cameras.

“The first act is rough. Sixteen mil—it’s really poor resolution! But that felt really appropriate to his youthfulness,” Mr. Boyle says. Jobs’s venture creating the overpriced black-cube NeXT computer—after Mr. Sculley ousted him from Apple in 1985—is presented as a successful stunt that got Apple to buy the NeXT technology and hire him back. This dramatic turn wasn’t entirely Mr. Sorkin’s invention, the screenwriter said, but based on interviews with two people who speculated that “by the time of the NeXT launch Steve Jobs already knew the machine wasn’t going to sell and that his endgame was to build an [operating system] that Apple needed.”

This triumphal second act, the director says, is “very succulent and seductive, with the golds and the reds, and it’s about revenge, and operatic.” The third act, when personal conflicts come home to roost, is shot in flaw-revealing digital.

“Everything’s visible, there’s nowhere to hide,” Mr. Boyle says. “Of course, our purpose was to bring him to account as a person. That he will not achieve the fame and the wonder and everything that arrives in the third act. The iMac will be a huge success. None of that means anything until he can admit that despite having made all the most beautiful things, he is himself poorly made.”

The backstage vibe and long scenes give the movie a theatrical feel.

“We very much functioned as though we were preparing to perform a play,” Ms. Winslet says. “We would rehearse each act and learn it like a play, so that by the time we got onto the set, we really knew all our lines inside out, back-to-front, and upside down. But then when we were shooting, it was absolutely like shooting a movie.”

Although Mr. Sorkin didn’t interview Jobs, the two men had a brief history. “We never met. We spoke on the phone three times,” Mr. Sorkin says. “He called me once just to tell me that he liked an episode of ‘West Wing’ that I wrote. Then he called me a second time and asked me if I’d like to come up and tour Pixar, in the hopes that I’d write a Pixar movie. And the third and final time was to ask for help on his [2005] Stanford commencement address. I told him, ‘I wouldn’t presume to put thoughts into your head, so write out your thoughts, email it to me, and I’ll try to put the tune to it.’ ” The speech has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times on YouTube. In the end, Jobs decided to write it himself.

Corrections & Amplifications:

Former Apple CEO John Sculley spoke with Walter Isaacson for Mr. Isaacson’s book “Steve Jobs.” An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated he didn’t. (Oct. 5, 2015)

Write to Don Steinberg at don.steinberg@wsj.com