With iPad sales stalling, Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) has made a huge new push into the professional market with its gigantic iPad Pro

Apple has a reputation for the theatrical. Its glitzy product launches are tightly guarded, carefully stage managed, and full of key announcements designed to send attendees into rapturous applause.

However, the biggest shock of Wednesday’s blitz of announcements wasn’t an eye-catching new feature of the latest iPhone . It (Other OTC: ITGL - news) was the sight of Kirk Koenigsbauer, the head of Microsoft’s Office division, appearing on stage to demonstrate how his company’s software works on Apple’ new iPad Pro tablet.

It was a seminal moment in the history of a rivalry that goes back more than 30 years, and one that is hard to imagine happening in the days when Bill Gates and Steve Jobs ran the two companies.

Time (Xetra: 17T.DE - news) moves on, however, and the events of Wednesday night underline a new reality about Microsoft (NasdaqGS: MSFT - news) and Apple’s positions in a crucial market: business users.

As well as Apple’s new iPhones and its Apple TV box, the company also presented its latest attempt to hoover up corporate dollars: a 12.9-inch version of its iPad that will be sold alongside two new accessories a physical keyboard and an “Apple (Swiss: AAPL.SW - news) Pencil” stylus .

If the name “iPad Pro” wasn’t clear enough, bringing Microsoft a byword for productivity software on stage certainly put the message across. This is not a toy; it is Apple’s assault on the business world, a world still dominated by desktop and laptop computers.

The iPad was launched five years ago, and became a success far quicker than the iPhone: Apple sold 20m of them in its first year and almost 50m in its second, against 5.4m and 15.8m for the iPhone. However, sales are now falling, down 18pc year-on-year in Apple’s last quarter, while the iPhone continues to break new records.

In the three months to June , both Apple’s Mac line and its “services” division which includes iTunes and the App Store had higher revenue than the iPad. Analysts worry about market saturation once consumers have bought an iPad, they don’t upgrade with the same regularity as with the iPhone

The iPad Pro, which is significantly more powerful than previous iPad incarnations, as well as many of the computers on the market, represents an effort to turn this decline around with its push in the business market.

Apple has recently launched tie-ups with enterprise stalwarts IBM (NYSE: IBM - news) and Cisco, giving it a strong foothold in areas like cloud computing and management software that have long been the PC’s domain.

“The iPad Pro should invigorate [Apple’s] iPad line,” said Geoff Blaber, of research house CCS Insight. “[It] provides a clear option for enterprise when coupled with keyboard accessories and a growing focus on enterprise apps.”

Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook has said he is “still bullish” on the iPad, despite its struggles. If the iPad Pro can take a bite out of the tens of millions of PCs companies buy every year, he has reason to be.