Unlike the years past, iOS 9 is a stable update. WSJ's Joanna Stern gives you a tour of the features you'll want to use the most once you upgrade. Photo/video: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal.

Like clockwork, mid-September arrives, we update to a promising new iOS, then … we learn to survive with a buggy, slow and battery-drained iPhone. Again and again. It would make a boring sequel to “Groundhog Day.”

Here’s the spoiler, though: The plague of miserable, repetitive upgrade cycles ends Wednesday, with the arrival of iOS 9.

Available as a free update on all recent devices going back to the iPhone 4S and iPad 2, iOS 9 is all about stability—with fewer hair-pulling bugs, slowdowns and battery problems. Apple was so adamant about making up for last year’s disastrous iOS 8 launch—the one that left some with no cellular connectivity—that it even gave fearless users the opportunity to test out the new software early and report bugs.

Q&A With Geoffrey Fowler and Joanna Stern Is it worth installing Apple’s newest mobile operating system? Will the download even fit on your iPhone? WSJ Personal Tech columnists Geoffrey Fowler and Joanna Stern are answering your questions about iOS 9, the new Apple Watch OS and more. Join us Sept. 16 at 2 p.m. ET.

Apple also made it smaller, so you don’t have to clear a huge landing zone for it. The update requires 1.3GB of free space, less than a third of iOS 8’s 4.58GB. That’s somewhat of a relief for people with 16GB phones, less of one for poor souls with 8GB phones. In either case, you may still need to remove some apps and photos to make room.

ENLARGE Apple’s iOS 9 focuses on stability, not groundbreaking features. Photo: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal

I’ve been using the final version on an iPhone 5, 5S, 6 and on various iPads and it feels a lot like the previous version. On one hand, that’s great: Despite some niggling little bugs, the software feels nearly as stable as the latest version of iOS 8. According to our tests, it can actually speed up your phone in some places and extend the time between charges.

On the other hand, iOS 9 is far from a giant innovation leap. The best new bits have all appeared elsewhere first, on Android and even Windows. Despite that—and the fact that iOS is still missing a few features—Apple’s operating system remains the most user-friendly. Those small, timesaving additions make iOS 9 the most instantly gratifying update of the past few years.

A More Power-Efficient iPhone

“Wait, wait, more battery life after updating?” Yep, you read that right, but before you ditch your charger for the weekend, the power-saving benefits of iOS 9 require some explanation.

Apple promises an extra hour of battery life after the update. In our grueling, far-from-typical battery test, which cycles through a series of websites with brightness set to 65%, the iPhone 6 with iOS 9 lasted 40 extra minutes. Those savings come from tweaks Apple has made to better manage the power efficiency of its own apps, including Safari.

Additional savings are promised for when you aren’t using the phone nonstop. Now, when the iPhone is face down on the table (or even in your pocket), the screen won’t illuminate when notifications arrive.

You get a detailed peek at which apps are eating up battery life now, too. The list is found in Settings under the new Battery section. This snapshot is great for informing how you should use your phone when battery life is scarce—and at illustrating my serious Twitter addiction.

ENLARGE In the Settings menu, you now get a more-detailed explanation of which apps are eating at your battery. Photo: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal

The most surefire way to squeeze out extra juice is with the new Low Power Mode, which you’re prompted to turn on when you hit the dreaded 20% red zone. It reduces the frequency with which the phone looks for new mail and app updates, and drops screen brightness to about 35%. With it on, I got about 40 extra minutes of battery on the iPhone 5S and the iPhone 6. (I got 3.5 extra hours when I left my phone on Low Power all day, but the screen is so dim it isn’t worth it.)

A More Time-Efficient iPhone

The big reason to upgrade isn’t power savings, though. It’s time savings. Apple understands that we want to spend more time in apps—and less time looking for them. To the left of the home screen, there’s now a portal where Siri predicts apps you’ll want to use next, people you’d want to talk to and points of interest you might visit, all based on your behavior and the time of day.

Siri’s new home screen is now my first stop, but it still feels half-baked compared with Google Now. Siri’s predictive engine is far less advanced. This is largely because Google’s strategy requires accumulating a great deal of our personal data, something that Apple frowns upon.

But it shows: Siri just doesn’t seem to get me, compared with Android’s Google Now screen, which reminds me when “Scandal” is on, where I’m traveling next, and how long it will take me to get home from the office.

ENLARGE Siri suggests nearby locations, although her recommendations could be much better. Photo: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal

And oh, Siri’s suggested points of interest! They aren’t of interest at all. Apple Maps is greatly improved in iOS 9—especially with the addition of transit directions—but Google Maps still wins at suggesting the best and closest restaurants and stores. Seriously, can someone take Siri out for a decent cup of coffee? Perhaps then she’d stop suggesting chains and point out more good local spots.

If you find Siri’s search bar useful, there’s now also a Settings search for you to get unnaturally excited about. (Another feature taken from Android, but who’s keeping score?) No more wasting time figuring out how to change a ringtone. Just punch in “Ring” and a link to the right menu appears.

If one thing has really sped up my iPhone use, though, it’s the ability to easily hop between active apps. When you are taken out of one app to another—say, by clicking on a Web link from a text message—a small strip of “Back to…” text appears in top left corner. Tap it and you’re in the previous app.

ENLARGE When you are taken out of one app to another, this text in the upper left corner appears and helps you go back to the previous app. Photo: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal

Android has had a back button for years, but this sure beats going to the multitasking menu or, worse, the home screen, to find your last app. Apple did revamp the multitasking menu in iOS 9 to look like a stack of fanned cards. It’s prettier, but since it now fans to the left of the homescreen rather than to the right, I’ve found the change of direction frustratingly hard to get used to.

A More Computer-Like iPad

All of the above works on most iPads, but the newest of the tablets get some long overdue features of their own. Finally, these single-task devices are becoming true multitasking computers.

Following in the footsteps of Samsung and Microsoft, Apple finally lets you put two apps side by side… if you have an iPad Air 2 or the newly announced iPad Pro or iPad Mini 4. When you’re looking at one app, you swipe in from the right edge to add a second app to the screen. Your first option is the most recent, but you can swipe down from the top to switch.

It’s game changing. I now spend most of the time surfing Safari on the left and keeping an eye on my Mail or Messages on the right. (Third-party apps, such as Twitter and Facebook, should be updated soon to take advantage of the feature.)

The older iPad Air and iPad Mini 2 and 3 can display a second app, but it only takes up a third of the screen, so it’s better for stuff you just want to keep your eye on, like email or messages.

Those same iPads also now have picture-in-picture video that’s been great for my nonstop “Mr. Robot” binge. Unfortunately, it doesn’t work yet with apps, such as Netflix, Hulu and HBO Go, just videos that use Apple’s player or that run in newly compatible apps. (I bought “Mr. Robot” on iTunes.)

The new iPad keyboard (available on all models) also makes it easier to write emails or longer text pieces. Not only does formatting (e.g. bold and italics) appear at the top of the keyboard, but when you drag two fingers over the keys, you can easily move the cursor around the text. I just wish it was more obvious and smoother to use.

There are, of course, a lot more things I’d wish for first. I wish iMessage was overhauled to better compete with the speed and features of Google Hangouts and WhatsApp. I wish Mail had an easily accessible attachment button and that the Control Center had a Settings shortcut. And don’t get me started on auto-correct. Luckily, iOS 9.1 is in the works—with more emojis than ever to help me express myself.

Look, you’re going to upgrade to the latest iOS. Statistically, most people do. But this year, you can do it with the added confidence that you’re gaining useful tricks without sacrificing battery life or performance.

Write to Joanna Stern at joanna.stern@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications

An earlier version should have noted that the floating picture-in-picture video screen available on recent iPads running iOS 9 can be resized by pinching to zoom in. (Sept. 15, 2015)