In the film “Steve Jobs,” the late co-founder of Apple challenged then-CEO John Sculley’s decision to focus spending on the Apple II rather than the Macintosh computer. In this clip, Jobs (Michael Fassbender) and Sculley (Jeff Daniels) bring their differences to Apple’s board. Photo/Video: Universal Pictures

A celebrated ad campaign for Apple urged us to “Think different.” That’s certainly what the people who made “ Steve Jobs ” have tried to do. This audacious variation on a conventional biopic is data-dense and supercharged by the drama surrounding three of Jobs’s most significant product launches; they give the narrative its unusual structure. ( Danny Boyle directed from a screenplay that Aaron Sorkin adapted, in part, from the Walter Isaacson biography.) Controversial in life, Apple’s co-founder eludes categorization on screen, though that’s not true of Michael Fassbender ’s portrayal, which is consistently fascinating. This Jobs can be cold and cruel, charming by design and arrogant by instinct. He’s a visionary zealot with a mind that roams as free as an astral traveler. In many ways the film reflects its hero’s brilliance. It’s a scintillating construction, though one that sometimes feels like a product launch in its own right.

More Reviews ‘Victoria’

The primary product is entertainment; “Steve Jobs” never ceases to be interesting, That’s due in part to Mr. Boyle’s signature zestfulness—he’s a director who exults in the possibilities of the medium—plus Mr. Sorkin’s equally distinctive style, which flings words around like high-energy particles in an accelerator. Much of the interest, of course, flows from our unquenchable fascination with Steve Jobs, whose vision informed or sustained not one but two singular corporate entities, Apple and Pixar Animation Studios.

ENLARGE Kate Winslet and Michael Fassbender in a scene from ‘Steve Jobs.’ Photo: Universal Studios

Pixar doesn’t even get a mention in this story; the three-launch structure—first the Macintosh, then the NeXT computer and finally the iMac—clearly required hard choices of what to exclude and what to keep. (A huge exclusion is the ravaging cancer that preceded Jobs’s death, at the age of 56, in 2011.) Still, a secondary product is information, as befits our information age; there’s a lot to be learned, even if much of the tech talk is esoteric, and some of the boardroom machinations, staged operatically, are as inscrutable as lines of code. ( Jeff Daniels is John Sculley, the Apple CEO who was by turns Jobs’s mentor, father figure and the agent of his dismissal from the company.)

What the movie keeps coming back to is Jobs’s fraught relationship with his oldest daughter, Lisa Brennan-Jobs, for whom he long denied paternity. ( Katherine Waterston makes a lot out of a small role as Lisa’s mother, Chrisann Brennan, while Lisa in her late teens is played eloquently by Perla Haney-Jardine. ) Lisa is, we are asked to believe, at the core of his repressed torment, and the potential instrument of his healing. That’s a speculative notion in what the filmmakers have termed an impressionistic view of their subject, and for all we know it’s a valid one. Yet the product launched here, in a series of father-daughter encounters over the course of almost two decades, is manipulative sentimentality.

The scenes are affecting. How could they not be, when we see little Lisa’s father telling her angrily that he isn’t her father, and insisting that he didn’t name the Lisa computer after her. Or telling her, toward the end, that he made grievous mistakes as her father because “I’m poorly made.” All the same, this is a far cry from “thinking different”—it’s the stuff of countless Hollywood weepers, a simplistic element in a film that takes on one of the most complex innovators of our time.

ENLARGE Michael Fassbender in ‘Steve Jobs.’ Photo: Universal Studios

That said, “Steve Jobs” is extremely well made, and held together dramatically, if not emotionally, by another relationship that’s a lot more fun—the one in which Jobs carries on like a fractious unicorn in a high-tech zoo while Joanna Hoffman, Apple’s marketing guru, functions as his keeper. Hoffman, played with lovely verve by Kate Winslet, is the only one who can herd Jobs, counsel him, defuse his fury at the failings of others and challenge the output of what has famously been called his “reality distortion field.” In a less tumultuous arena the couple could have been lovers. In this one they’re constantly at each other’s throats, rather than in each other’s hearts. “What’s your problem?” he asks at one of many flash points. “I don’t know,” she replies, “but I’m sure it can be traced back to you.”

Words are a crucial part of the tumult, pungent words that Mr. Sorkin has put in an assortment of outspoken mouths. “God sent his only son on a suicide mission,” Jobs says grandly, “but we like him anyway because he gave us trees.” Later, the software wizard Andy Hertzfeld ( Michael Stuhlbarg ), a put-upon member of the original Macintosh team, asks, “Why do you want people to dislike you?” Apple’s co-founder, Steve Wozniak (a touching performance by Seth Rogen ) advises Jobs, his friend from high school, that “it’s not binary, you can be decent and gifted at the same time.”

Is all of this an accurate depiction of the great man’s life, or still another reality distortion field? Since that’s not for us outsiders to know, the best approach may be to take the film on its own impressionistic terms. For all its speculations and self-imposed limits, “Steve Jobs” gives the strong impression of a tortured titan struggling with himself and those around him to change the world, and succeeding more than most mortals do.

Rewind

DVD // Streaming // Download

ENLARGE

Michael Fassbender is Rochester in Cary Fukunaga’s transfixing version of the Charlotte Brontë romance, which stars Mia Wasikowska as Jane. Mr. Fassbender’s lord of the cursed manor is worthy of his governess’s love, even though he’s no match for the one played by Timothy Dalton when it comes to despair. Instead of a black hole taking energy in, he’s a pulsar pumping it out in the form of pain relieved, occasionally, by an openness to Jane’s beauty.

Write to Joe Morgenstern at joe.morgenstern@wsj.com