Life satisfaction, sense of worth and happiness increased with household wealth, ONS finds

Britons are more likely to rejoice in the health of their bank balance than the size of their house or car, new research has suggested.

Offering a closer look at the link between wealth and well-being in one of the less equal advanced economies, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) study showed Britons' life satisfaction, sense of worth and happiness increased with household wealth.

The size of assets such as bank accounts, shares and children's' savings - which together comprise net household financial wealth - are most strongly related to personal well-being, the study showed.

By contrast, there was no significant link between net property or pension wealth and well-being.

Several billionaires seem to disagree with the ONS' findings.

On the recent BBC programme, Britain's Spending Secrets, John Caudwell, businessman, philanthropist, founder of Phones4U, worth an estimated £2 billion, confided that, on the happiness scale, he sometimes feels more one or two out of ten .

Markus Persson - the creator of sandbox video game Minecraft - recently tweeted that selling his independent gaming company Mojang to Microsoft (NasdaqGS: MSFT - news) has left him feeling empty inside.

Matt Haig, the author of a memoir on his battle with depression, Reasons to Stay Alive , believes "we live in an age which equates financial success with a kind of salvation, but there is an increasing body of evidence to suggest that sudden or extreme financial success offers little immunity to depression".

"We assume that because poverty can exacerbate emotional and mental problems that it's opposite, wealth, will lead to emotional and mental well-being, but this is not always the case. I think we would have a lot healthier society if we could break the false correlation between wealth and happiness, and if we valued the latter a bit more than the former."

The ONS study showed that physical possessions like cars, art and antiques tended to increase life satisfaction among the wealthiest fifth, but otherwise had little effect.

Higher household income tended to improve life satisfaction and happiness, but did not reduce anxiety or boost self-esteem.

Inequality is a hot topic in Britain, where many workers have endured years of stagnant wages, and use of food banks has grown in recent years.

As part of the ONS’s well-being research programme the Government’ backed project nicknamed the “happiness index” thousands of people are regularly asked to rate how happy and how anxious they feel on a scale of 0 to 10 and to score how satisfied they are with life and how worthwhile they feel.

Those findings are then analysed by different levels and types of wealth: including financial wealth effectively money in the bank and physical wealth, meaning possessions, to the value of their property assets or pension pot.

The ONS study used data from its Wealth and Assets Survey that ran through 2011 and 2012.

“The results indicate that overall, as net financial wealth increases so does levels of life satisfaction," said the report.

“If this is considered across the distribution of net financial wealth, individuals living in households in the lowest quintile are more likely to report low levels of personal well-being than similar individuals living in households in the middle net financial wealth quintile.”

But it added: “Levels of property wealth and private pension wealth were not found to be related to levels of personal well-being.”