Apple's latest OS X upgrade can breathe new life into your old Mac. WSJ’s Joanna Stern reviews the free software. Photo/video: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal.

If it weren’t for the crumbs lodged in my keyboard, you could easily mistake my laptop for a brand new one. It no longer limps along like a three-legged turtle. In fact, with new multitasking and search tricks, it feels like it’s got rabbit in its blood.

Nah, I didn’t nag the company’s IT department for a tune-up. I didn’t perform computer surgery to install a faster hard drive, either. I just upgraded my two-year old MacBook Air to OS X El Capitan last week. For free. And it’s publicly available as a 6GB download on Wednesday through the Mac App Store for all 2009 Macs and later. (You’ll need 8.8GB of space to install.)

Unlike last year’s OS X Yosemite, the latest version of Apple AAPL 1.53 % ’s Mac operating system isn’t teeming with new features and a whole new look. Instead, El Capitan refines the things that matter most in a computer: how fast our apps work and how fast we can work with so many of them open. Even the name symbolizes the fine-tuning: El Capitan is but a peak within Yosemite National Park.

Sure, there are some worthwhile updates to Apple’s Notes, Photos and Mail apps themselves, but the most significant difference I’ve seen has been to my computer’s speed... and mine.

Need for Speed

“Uh, faster? Don’t you mean slower? I mean, Apple’s upgrades often drag down performance.” I was skeptical too, so I got out the stopwatch.

After upgrading, Apple’s Photos launched twice as fast (3 seconds vs. 7 seconds). Granted, that app was really slow before, but now even Word and Safari launch half a second faster. Most impressive: Opening 20 photos in Preview took just 5.5 seconds, instead of 8 seconds.

It’s more than just faster app launches. Jumping between apps feels much speedier, and scrolling—everywhere from my Facebook FB 2.64 % feeds to my Spotify playlists—has been noticeably smoother and less jittery. Overall, my Air has been performing like I just took it out of the box—minus, of course, that new-laptop smell and all the hopes and dreams of a clean hard drive.

I can’t promise zero slowdowns. If your computer’s still huffing and puffing, it could be that you are low on storage, need more RAM or a handful of other things. (Here’s a couple of other things you can try to speed up your Mac.) On the bright side… there’s a freshly designed spinning rainbow beach ball to look at when things do get slow!

I didn’t see a drastic hit on battery life, either. In my taxing Web surfing test, my laptop with El Capitan lasted 10 hours and 15 minutes, just 15 minutes shy of the Yosemite test.

ENLARGE Thanks to El Capitan, Apple's Photos app launches twice as fast. Photo: Drew Evans/The Wall Street Journal

A word of caution, however: The update seems to have activated background processes, including Spotlight and Photos indexing, which initially resulted in two to three hours less battery life than usual. They settled down after an initial surge. It also activated some third-party software I had turned off, so I had to track it down and kill it.

Improved Multitasking

Those speed advances save time, but El Capitan’s multitasking and search tricks save even more.

Click and hold the green dot on top of a window. The system prompts you to lock that window to one side of the screen, then put another next to it. Locking my Web-based email next to the Calendar app has saved tons of time I used to spend toggling back and forth between the apps or trying to arrange them manually.

How to place two apps side by side in El Capitan. Apple

Apple yanked this one right out of Microsoft MSFT 1.76 % ’s playbook, but I actually wish they had ripped off even more. In Windows, there’s no tiny target to click, and there are keyboard shortcuts as well. Additionally, unlike Microsoft’s solution, Apple’s works the best if you’re using the company’s own apps. While Spotify and Google GOOGL 1.39 % ’s Chrome did work with the new split-view feature, Microsoft Word 2011 didn’t. I saw other apps exhibit issues with the feature as well.

I’ve got far fewer complaints about the improved Mission Control, however. Previously, when you’d swipe up on the trackpad or hit the Mission Control key (F3), you’d see windows grouped by app. Now it swiftly shows all open windows as a single layer. It makes it much faster for me to locate that one special TextEdit document I need, rather than sift through the 15 or so I usually have open.

For the first time, I’ve even started to organize apps on virtual desktops, thanks to features that finally make Apple’s Spaces easier to use. In Mission Control, you can drag a window to the top of the screen to create a new desktop space. My email and calendar now have a permanent virtual home immediately to the right of my main desktop.

And perhaps the biggest innovation to the mouse cursor since the birth of the mouse cursor appears in El Capitan: If you lose track of the little pointer, shake it and it will enlarge. As silly as it sounds, I’ve found it quite useful, especially with an extra monitor hooked up.

There it is! Shake the cursor to make it bigger. Apple

Browsing and Searching

Something else sped up my machine this week. I did the unthinkable: I switched from Google’s Chrome to Apple’s Safari browser.

Chrome has always been a serious resource hog on a Mac. (Chrome consistently uses about third of my Mac’s 8GB of RAM and it drained the battery an hour faster than Safari in my tests.) But it’s been worth putting up with because Safari lagged behind in features. Not anymore. You can now pin tabs, quickly mute noisy audio, even see search results right in the address bar.

Yet despite the performance boost, it’s hard for me to commit to Safari for the long run. It isn’t browsing speed. In fact, I don’t notice the difference. Instead, it lacks Chrome’s selection of extensions, apps that integrate right into the browser. It also doesn’t yet show website icons on the tabs, which makes it hard for me to find the tabs I’m looking for.

Finding just about everything else on the system is easier, though. The new Spotlight lets you search the Web and your Mac with natural language. For instance, typing “weather for tomorrow” shows me right inside the Spotlight window that it’ll be cloudy with a high of 80. “Pizza Rat” brings up a link to the viral Web video and “Messages from Geoff from last week” returns seven days of emails (though only if you use Apple’s Mail app) and iMessages from my colleague.

The search bar is now more helpful but it could be smarter. When I typed “email settings,” it scanned my email for the word “settings” rather than showing me how to adjust my mail account in Settings.

Speaking of missing smarts, Siri and all her new iOS 9 predictive features are still MIA from the Mac. That leaves a gaping hole in the OS when compared with Windows 10’s Cortana and Google Now on a Chromebook, which both prompt you with information about things it finds in your email, calendar and Web searches.

The Mac’s new operating system may lack that predictive intelligence and deeper smarts, but I’ll excuse those absent big-leap features this year. The improved performance and productivity of El Capitan pave the trail for a future operating system that even those of us with dust bunnies in our USB ports might embrace.

Write to Joanna Stern at joanna.stern@wsj.com