Chinese president Xi Jinping poses for photo with technology chiefs including Apple (NasdaqGS: AAPL - news) 's Tim Cook, Amazon's Jeff Bezos and Facebook (NasdaqGS: FB - news) 's Mark Zuckerberg

As part of Xi Jinping's visit to America, the Chinese president met the great and good of the technology world at Microsoft (NasdaqGS: MSFT - news) 's headquarters in Seattle.

At a forum at the software giant's Redmond base, chief executives including Apple's Tim Cook , Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and Amazon's Jeff Bezos crossed paths with Mr Xi.

The stop created a spectacular photo opportunity for the 28 technology chief executives, founders and presidents as well as Mr Xi and Lu Wei, China's internet tsar.

It (Other OTC: ITGL - news) is also likely to be one of the most valuable photos of all time, based on the net worths of the individuals posing in it. Based on estimates, the 28 tech bosses in the room have a combined wealth of some $200 billion (£131 billion).

Front row from left: Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, JD.com's Liu Qiangdong, Cisco's John Chambers, Alibaba's Jack Ma, IBM (NYSE: IBM - news) 's Ginni Rometty, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Microsoft's Satya Nadella, China's Internet czar Lu Wei, Apple's Tim Cook, Tencent (HKSE: 0700-OL.HK - news) 's Pony Ma, and Amazon's Jeff Bezos. Middle row from left: Sohu's Zhang Chaoyang, AMD's Lisa Su, Lenovo's Yang Yuanqing, Microsoft's Harry Shum, Qualcomm (Hanover: QCI.HA - news) 's Steve Mollenkopf, CETC's Ziong Qunli, Intel (Swiss: INTC.SW - news) 's Brian Krzanich, Qihoo 360's Zhou Hongyi, LinkedIn's Reid Hoffman, and SINA's Cao Guowei. Back row from left: Sugon's Li Jun, Didi-Kuaidi's Cheng Wei, Broadband Capital (Other OTC: CGHC - news) 's Tian Suning, CEC's Liu Liehong, Baidu (Xetra: A0F5DE - news) 's Zhang Yaqin, AME Cloud Ventures' Jerry Yang, Inspur's Sun Pishu, AirBnB's Brian Chesky, and Sequoia Capital's Shen Nanpeng.

Using data from Forbes, and public stock holdings or pay when these were not available, the technology bosses have a combined wealth of $195.6 billion.

That is without the net worths of Cheng Wei, Li Jun, Lie Liehong, Zhang Yaqin and Sun Pishu - the number would probably rise above $200 billion if their wealths were brought into account.

Data for Steve Mollenkopf, Ginni Rometty, Brian Krzanich and Lisa Su are based on stock holdings, pay or rough estimates, so may undershoot their net worths. Others are based on data from Forbes .

Topping the list is Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, who has a net worth of $47.8 billion, according to Forbes.

The technology world's two richest billionaires, however, were not in the photo. They are Microsoft founder Bill Gates, with a $79.6 billion net worth, and Oracle (Hanover: ORC.HA - news) 's Larry Ellison. Mr Xi was due to dine with Mr Gates on Wednesday night, however.

Google (Xetra: A0B7FY - news) 's founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, valued at $33.4 billion and $32.8 billion, were conspicuous by their absence.