Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Exquisite Spanish Style Estate and Vineyard

Enlarge San Francisco-based online testing platform Optimizely has received $58 million in… more

San Francisco-based online testing platform Optimizely has received $58 million in funding, the startup said Tuesday, bringing the company's total funding level to $146 million, as marquee-name investors continue to look for value in tech startups.

Optimizely, which handles web and mobile content optimization, is perhaps best known for being founded by two former Google (NASDAQ: GOOG) employees, Dan Siroker and Pete Koomen. Siroker had already made a name for himself using A/B testing to bring in a historic amount of online fundraising for Barack Obama's first presidential campaign.

Enlarge San Francisco-based online testing platform Optimizely has received $58 million in… more

"One of the most important reasons we’ve raised this money is to further invest in personalization," wrote Siroke r in a company blog post Tuesday.

"Personalization has become a dirty word in our industry because vendors have consistently over promised and under delivered. Instead of making a promise we can’t keep, we’re excited to show the world how Optimizely Personalization will finally deliver on that promise."



The latest round was financed by a roster of well-known venture capitalists, including Andreessen Horowitz, Battery Ventures, Index Ventures, Citi Ventures (NYSE: C), Bain Capital Ventures, Salesforce Ventures, Correlation Ventures, Pharus Capital Management, Benchmark, Tenaya Capital and Danhua Capital.

See more:

As part of the terms of the deal, Index Ventures partner Ilya Fushman will now join Optimizely’s board.

The startup said it will use the money to bankroll its growing expansion into web and mobile content optimization. Its ranks have also grown by leaps and bounds, swelling to 402 employees now from 192 in 2014.

Optimizely's client list includes Disney (NYSE: DIS), Microsoft Store (NASDAQ: MSFT), Crate and Barrel, Virgin America (NASDAQ: VA), CNN ( NYSE: TWX), Intuit (NASDAQ: INTU) and Priceline (NASDAQ: PCLN). VB Insights analyst Stewart Rogers told VentureBeat this week that Optimizely has been good at attracting small business owners, though its feature suite may still need to be built out.

“It also has a free plan in its current pricing that is limited to certain features and 50,000 monthly unique visitors, which appeals to small businesses,” Rogers said in the article.

“However, no conversion optimization tool has yet managed to provide every CRO ( conversion rate optimization) feature in one,” Rogers said. “Optimizely would be well placed to win with a wider feature set, given its current market penetration.”