Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park

Enlarge Wind turbines are one of the devices Amazon says it can service through its new "Internet… more

Amazon.com is jumping into the “internet of things” industry, where it faces stiff competition from Microsoft and others in an industry projected to skyrocket in value.

The new platform announced Thursday, which is called AWS IoT (Amazon Web Services Internet of Things), makes it easy for devices – cars and light bulbs, for example – to connect to AWS' services.

Enlarge Wind turbines are one of the devices Amazon says it can service through its new "Internet… more

This enables companies to “store, process, analyze and act on the volumes of data generated by connected devices on a global scale,” Amazon (Nasdaq: AMZN) said in a release.



The system could be used to get devices such as smoke alarms, appliances or fitness trackers to take commands from computers. It could also connect critical infrastructure, such as wastewater treatment facilities and wind turbines to the cloud for monitoring and management.

If successful, this could be a very lucrative launch for Amazon in the long run. The International Data Corporation estimates the IoT market will grow from $655.8 billion in 2014 to $1.7 trillion in 2020.



The service is expected to “mimic” similar offerings from Microsoft, IBM, Ayla Networks, according to Fortune, which predicted the platform launch on Monday based on sections of a memo.

Fortune argues that Amazon will need to make the services more consumable to developers by offering a combination of services to developers. This would be what Microsoft would call a “suite” or what IBM would call its IoT Foundation, Fortune said.

Mark Russinovich, Microsoft’s chief technology officer for its integrated cloud services platform Azure, told Computing he is confident that Microsoft has a better cloud services offering than Amazon. He pointed to machine learning through Cortana Analytics Suite, Microsoft's focus on hybrid (both private and public combined) cloud services and the focus on end-to-end scenarios.

Whether or not Amazon has the full package established yet, it does have one key ingredient: customers, says Al Hilwa, program director at IDC.

Hilwa told TechNewsWorld AWS will “see great traction for this with their existing customers” since it builds on existing services.

Jeanine Stewart covers technology and retail for the Puget Sound Business Journal

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park