Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park

Enlarge Dell's part in the largest-ever tech acquisition could help knock out one of Amazon and… more

Dell made a big move toward diversifying its business away from PCs and into the cloud on Monday when the company announced one of the largest tech buyouts in history– and that’s good news for Seattle’s top cloud computing companies.

While the computer maker’s acquisition of big data company EMC Inc. (NYSE: EMC) will help bolster Dell’s ability to compete in the cloud industry, it could help to knock out one of Amazon (Nasdaq: AMZN) Web Services and Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) Azure’s biggest competitors.

Enlarge Dell's part in the largest-ever tech acquisition could help knock out one of Amazon and… more

As part of the deal valued at more than $67 billion, Dell will inherit a majority stake in cloud and virtualization software company VMware. VMware will remain a separate, publicly traded company, but its new relationship with Dell could hurt business.

The cloud company needs server partners and Dell – which competes with those server vendors including Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Lenovo – could complicate that, according to analyst Larry Dignan. Server vendors could choose to rally around Microsoft’s systems which plug into Azure.

VMware market share is already declining as Amazon and Microsoft take over more of the space. AWS is still king of the cloud with 57 percent of the market. Microsoft’s Azure is gaining, doubling from 6 to 12 percent between this year and last. Meanwhile, VMware’s vCloud Air slipped from 8 to 5 percent, according to 2015 State of the Cloud report by Right Scale.

Microsoft and Amazon both posted record profits for their cloud computing divisions last year and continue to develop new features to lure customers to their public cloud systems. Both companies have been hiring cloud workers almost as fast as they can as the businesses develop, and the fact that they're both based in the Puget Sound region has helped develop the area into a center for cloud innovation.

While the Dell deal could be trouble for VMware, it makes a lot of sense for Dell. The company is the third-largest manufacturer in the long-suffering personal computer industry. PC shipments worldwide fell nearly 10 percent last quarter compared to the previous year. Dell sales fell 5 percent in the same time frame.

The company has been working to expand its business beyond PCs after a rough few years. CEO Michael Dell in 2013 took the company private with a $25 billion buyout. Back then, he said he’d work to transform Dell’s business model beyond manufacturing. As PC sales decline, other manufacturers have been working toward the same goal. PC leader HP will split into two companies early next month. Lenovo has expanded into smartphones, though those sales have taken a dive. The deal, expected to close in 2016, would create the largest privately held tech company. Ashley Stewart covers technology and finance for the Puget Sound Business Journal.

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park