Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park

Enlarge Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella will appear at the same conference where he last year told… more

Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella will head back to the conference where he last year told women to rely on “faith” and “karma” for raises – but this time, he’ll be in the audience.

Nadella was invited back to speak at the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference, but declined to instead “focus on listening, learning and exchanging ideas,” a Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) spokesperson told GeekWire reports.

Enlarge Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella will appear at the same conference where he last year told… more

Last year at the conference, during Nadella’s his first year as the Redmond company’s chief executive, he said women shouldn’t ask for the raises, but rely on the system to reward them appropriately.

“It’s not really about asking for a raise, but knowing and having faith the system would actually give you the right raises as you go along,” he said. “I think that might be one of the additional superpowers that, quite frankly, women who don’t ask for a raise have. Because that’s good karma, it will come back.”

Nadella backpedalled, but not before his comments drove a national conversation on diversity in tech and the gender pay gap. Women are paid 77 cents for every dollar a man makes for the same job in the U.S. That’s slightly higher among computer software engineers. Female employees make 88 percent of what men earn.

After the flap, Nadella called made changes at Microsoft in an attempt to help close that gap, and made diversity training a requirement for employees.

“I answered that question completely wrong,” he wrote in an email to employees last year. “Without a doubt I wholeheartedly support programs at Microsoft and in the industry that bring more women into technology and close the pay gap. I believe men and women should get equal pay for equal work … If you think you deserve a raise, you should just ask.”

Women make up less than 28 percent of Microsoft’s total workforce and less than 17 percent of the company’s technical workforce.

Ashley Stewart covers technology and finance for the Puget Sound Business Journal.

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Offered for the First Time: The Heirloom Homes at Fort Lawton in Discovery Park