Dell will offer EMC (NYSE:EMC) more than $30 a share, including tracking stock in VMware (NYSE:VMW), about 80% owned by EMC, according to several reports. Meanwhile, General Electric (NYSE:GE) is near a deal to sell $30 billion in loans to Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), as GE racing ahead with efforts to cut $200 billion in GE Capital assets. Finally, Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) reportedly is mulling layoffs as the first big order of business for CEO Jack Dorsey.

Dell To EMC: Cash, Plus VMware Stock

Privately held PC and server giant will offer EMC more than $30 a share, mostly cash but also tracking stock in VWware EMC's majority-owned virtualization software maker. The exact total and mix was unclear. Bloomberg pegged the deal at $33 a share, including VMware tracking stock of roughly $8. CNBC's David Faber had said the cash and tracking stock mix would total $30 or more. Earlier, Re/Code had said the deal would be $27.25 cash plus tracking stock.

The fate of VMware has been a big issue for quite some time. Activist fund Elliott Management had long sought a sale of VMware — or of EMC itself.

EMC stock closed up 2.5% to 27.86 on the stock market Friday, then climbed nearly 4% to 28.99 in after-hours action. VMware edged higher late after advancing 1.7% in the regular session. VMware had fallen nearly 6% Thursday amid uncertainty over its fate as Dell-EMC reports rose.

General Electric to sell loans to Wells Fargo

General Electric is in late-stage talks to sell $30 billion in loans from a specialty finance portfolio to Wells Fargo, according to a report in Reuters and later the Financial Times. That would put GE well ahead of its plan to cut $100 billion in GE Capital assets by year end. It's already sold $97 billion, including a prior sale to Wells Fargo.

A deal could be announced by Wells Fargo's earnings report, due Wednesday morning. GE reports its Q3 results on Friday.

GE ultimately wants to shed $200 billion in assets to focus on industrial businesses and to avoid higher capital requirements from its heretofore outsized Capital unit.

Twitter's Big Idea: Cut Jobs?

The microblog site is mulling significant layoffs as soon as this week, Re/Code reported late Friday, marking the first notable business move since Jack Dorsey was named permanent CEO. Twitter has 4,100 jobs vs. 2,000 just before its Q2 2013 IPO.

The report sent Twitter shares down more than 3% in after-hours action Friday. Investors have been hoping for initiatives to boost growth beyond its core user base.

Follow Ed Carson on Twitter @IBD_ECarson and on Facebook.