A sagging energy sector and a strong dollar promise to weigh on General Electric (NYSE:GE) when it reports third-quarter earnings Friday before markets open.

The Fairfield, Conn.-based industrial conglomerate is expected to earn 26 cents a share in Q3, down 31.6% from a year earlier, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. Revenue is expected to slide 20.8% to $28.6 billion. That would be the company's fifth earnings decline in seven quarters and the fourth revenue decline in seven quarters.

The company's shares closed up 0.1% to 28.09 in the stock market today, and they have traded above their 200-day moving average since Oct. 5. GE's current IBD Composite Rating is 72, meaning it trades better than 72% of other publicly traded companies.

The energy sector has taken a beating since crude-oil prices were cut in half last year. The strengthening dollar has hurt sales of U.S. corporations with exposure to international markets because their goods become more expensive abroad.

GE is in the midst of getting back to its industrial roots. It is negotiating the sale of a specialty-finance portfolio to Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) for an estimated $30 billion, Reuters reported. If consummated, the deal would put GE well ahead of its plan to shed $100 billion in GE Capital assets by the end of the year. Including a prior sale to Wells Fargo, GE already has sold off $97 billion in such assets. The company ultimately wants to sell $200 billion in assets to focus more on its industrial business and avoid higher capital requirements for GE Capital.

Meanwhile, GE hasn't been only about selling. Last month, it won approval from European Union antitrust officials for its $14 billion purchase of French-based Alstom's power unit, eliminating the biggest regulatory hurdle for GE's largest-ever takeover.

It has also reportedly been bidding for parts of Halliburton's (NYSE:HAL) drilling service and drilling-bit units. Halliburton is under pressure from the Justice Department to shed some of its businesses to assuage antitrust concerns related to its $35 billion takeover bid for rival Baker Hughes. (NYSE:BHI)

General Electric has also come under the eye of Trian Fund Management, which bought 98.5 million shares of its stock for $2.5 billion, giving it a 1% ownership stake in the company. Run by activist investor Nelson Peltz, the fund wants GE to be disciplined in its acquisitions, expand its margins, explore more share buybacks and mull additional ways of scaling back GE Capital.