Call Details General Electric Co Earnings Call (Q3 2015)

Fri, Oct 16, 2015, 8:30 am Eastern Listen to the archived event audio

About General Electric Co (NYSE:GE)

General Electric Company operates as an infrastructure and financial services company worldwide. The company’s Power and Water segment offers gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, nuclear reactors, generators, combined cycle systems, controls, and related services; wind turbines; and water treatment services and equipment. Its Oil and Gas segment provides surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, reactors, industrial power generation, and auxiliary equipment. The company’s Energy Management segments offers plant automation hardware, software, and embedded computing systems, including controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces, and industrial computers. Its Aviation segment offers jet engines; aerospace systems and equipment; and replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for commercial and military aircraft, marine applications, and executive and regional aircraft. The company’s Healthcare segment provides medical imaging, software and information technology (IT), patient monitoring and diagnostics, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies, and performance improvement solutions. Its Transportation segment offers freight and passenger locomotives, and diesel engines for rail, marine, and stationary power applications; railway signaling and communications systems; underground mining equipment; motorized drive systems; IT solutions; and replacement parts and value added services. The company’s Appliances & Lighting segment manufactures home appliances; and lighting products for commercial and industrial applications. Its GE Capital segment offers commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, credit cards, personal loans, and other financial services. General Electric Company was founded in 1892 and is headquartered in Fairfield, Connecticut.



More Info: Quote | Chart | Profile | Research | SEC | Msgs | Insider | Financials | Analyst Ratings