At a time when many thought Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) might back away from the hardware business, or at least limit its product offerings, the company surprised the crowd at its Windows 10 hardware event by introducing its first-ever laptop.

Called the Surface Book, the new device borrows a lot from the hybrid tablet/laptop it's named after. Still, if the Surface Pro 3 is "the tablet that can replace your laptop," then Surface Book is the laptop that also works as a tablet.

It seems subtle, but it's a powerful difference. Microsoft has created a computer that compares favorably to the top-tier MacBooks that also works in two different tablet configurations. It's a bold entree into a hyper-competitive market, but the Windows maker has jumped in with its best foot forward.

What is the Surface Book?

It's a 13.5" laptop powered by either a sixth-generation Intel Core i5 or i7 processor with up to 16GB of memory and an optional discrete graphics chip. The laptop comes in a variety of configurations, starting with a 128GB solid-state drive and going all the way up to 1TB.

The device weighs just 3.34 pounds, including the keyboard (varying slightly depending upon the model), and it offers what the company calls a 13.5" PixelSense(TM) display with 3000 x 2000 (267 PPI) resolution, an aspect ratio of 3:2, and 10-point multi-touch. It comes with an advanced stylus, USB-C for charging, a 5MP front-facing camera, an 8MP rear-facing camera with autofocus, dual microphones, and front-facing stereo speakers with Dolby audio. It also offers 12 hours of battery life, according to the company, and it's pretty to look at, with a magnesium casing and a silver color.

Surface Book starts at $1,499, can be pre-ordered now, and ships October 26.

It's more than just specs

While Microsoft has delivered some pretty impressive specs with the Surface Book, that's only part of its appeal. The laptop/tablet hybrid is fully a laptop -- it's not a tablet with a keyboard tacked on -- but it's more than that, offering three distinct operating modes, as Microsoft explained on its website.