Shares of General Electric (NYSE:GE) moved lower Tuesday despite an analyst upgrade, while JetBlue Airways (NASDAQ:JBLU) was one of several airlines to receive analyst downgrades ahead of third-quarter earnings reports.

William Blair upgraded General Electric to outperform from market perform with a 32 price target, citing upside potential from its Alstom energy-unit acquisition and data-analytics business, as well as the possibility of shares doubling to 60 by 2020.

GE reports Q3 earnings on Friday. The industrial conglomerate is expected to earn 26 cents a share, down 31.6% from a year earlier, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. Revenue is expected to slide 20.8% to $28.6 billion.

Also on Tuesday, GE confirmed that it agreed to sell its Commercial Distribution Finance business, its North American Vendor Finance unit and its Corporate Finance business to Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC). Terms weren't disclosed, but the assets are worth about $32 billion.

GE shares closed down 0.8% on the stock market today.

Another industrial giant, United Technologies (NYSE:UTX), fell 1.2% after it was downgraded to sector perform by RBC Capital.

JPMorgan downgraded JetBlue to neutral from overweight but maintained its 27 price target. JetBlue shares gapped down 7.9%.

Meanwhile, American Airlines (NASDAQ:AAL) and Alaska Air (NYSE:ALK) were downgraded to hold by Evercore ISI. American lost 1% Tuesday, while Alaska Air declined 5.2%.

Raymond James downgraded SkyWest (NASDAQ:SKYW) to market perform with a 20 price target. SkyWest shares tumbled 7% after surging 11.4% on Monday.

VMware (NYSE:VMW) was downgraded to market perform by JMP Securities. On Monday, VMware fell 8% on the news that it would remain publicly traded even after majority owner EMC (NYSE:EMC) is acquired by Dell and other investors. VMware lost an additional 4.1% Tuesday.

Toll Bros. (NYSE:TOL) fell 1.5% after rising earlier in the day following an upgrade to overweight by Morgan Stanley, which also gave the stock a 44 price target.

Among other homebuilders, D.R. Horton (NYSE:DHI) fell 1.65% despite a price target hike to 31 from 28 by Barclays; Meritage (NYSE:MTH) shares lost 1.4% even though its price target was raised to 44 from 43 by Barclays; and PulteGroup (NYSE:PHM) fell about 3% after it was downgraded to underweight by Morgan Stanley.