Five days after Microsoft Corp. opened preorders for its first-ever laptop, the Surface Book has sold out.

The 13.5-inch device, which Microsoft has compared to Apple Inc.’s AAPL, +1.53% Macbook Pro, headlined Microsoft’s MSFT, +1.76% product event on Oct. 6 and immediately went on sale on the company’s website.

Five days later, the purchase button has been replaced by an “email me when available” option, indicating all Surface Book versions, ranging from $1,499 to $2,099, are currently out of stock.

“We’ve seen strong demand for Surface Book and have sold out of pre-order supply for October 26 availability,” a company spokesperson said.

Microsoft.com

Microsoft said it will have limited quantities of Surface Book available in store on October 26 and will be updating online availability with new product ship dates soon.

This doesn’t necessarily mean there has been an overwhelming surge in demand for Microsoft’s first laptop. It could also mean the company did not provide sufficient supply, likely protecting itself after its embarrassing $900 million writedown in 2013 for the Surface RT.

“It’s always hard to know whether a device is sold out because of overwhelming demand or underwhelming supply. I suspect in this case it’s the latter,” said Jan Dawson, chief analyst at Jackdaw Research.

Dawson said there wasn’t much of a precedent for the Surface Book within Microsoft, so it is likely the company was very conservative about how many units it initially manufactured.

Of course, being sold out isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It tends to draw increased media attention, for one, a tactic drawn straight from Apple’s playbook in earlier iPhone years.

“All depends on how many they have ordered,” said Richard Windsor, an analyst at Edison Equity Research. “Being out of stock right after launch is a classic marketing trick pioneered by Apple.”

Dawson said he’s sure Microsoft will be able to recoup supply “pretty quickly” to meet demand.

At the very least, the sell-out speaks to strong demand for Microsoft’s new products as it works to build its own suite of internal hardware that will run Windows 10 and future iterations of its software.

Also Read: Microsoft bets Surface Book can lure you away from Apple

Shares of Microsoft traded 0.3% higher to $47.04 in recent trade. They have risen 3% over the last three months, versus a 5.4% decline for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

More from MarketWatch