CUPERTINO -- Just as greenthumbs might flock to the San Francisco Botanical Garden or architecture buffs might tour the Frank Lloyd Wright Civic Center in Marin County, so now can Bay Area techies visit the gleaming new Apple store at the company headquarters in Cupertino.

Part showroom, part temple, the store displays all the whimsy and pizzazz one expects from Apple while making 1 Infinite Loop visitors sense that they are close to the magic created at the world-famous campus.

With its oak wood tables, terrazzo floors and glass walls, the space exudes a warm, quiet confidence intended to welcome employees, locals and tourists alike. It's both an exhibit and a store, although products as well as aesthetics are there to be consumed in proximity to the place where designers, engineers and tech wizards craft the latest in electronic gadgets that have transformed the world and created a cult following.

An Apple specialist, right, greets a customer during the opening of Apple's newly renovated campus store in Cupertino on Sept. 19, 2015. (LiPo Ching/Bay Area News Group)

Transformed over the summer, this replaces a rather dull and unremarkable storefront that had been in place since 1993, when John Sculley was still the company CEO. The old store didn't even sell some of the company's main products as they rolled out. No iPhone. No Apple Watch.

In fact, tech company retail outlets are typically low-budget affairs, places to buy T-shirts, pens or magnets with company logos for employee retirement parties and workplace gift exchanges. And that may be fine for most companies attracting buses of Silicon Valley tourists who pause for selfies and a piece of tech memorabilia.

But Apple, true to its innovative reputation -- and voracious fan expectations -- this time preferred to inspire.

Advertisement

It worked.

Apple employees who were given an early look on Friday lined up down the street like they would for any big, highly-anticipated Apple event. The public followed on Saturday to get a first look at this curated experience of Apple's aesthetic, possibly informed by Jony Ive, the iPhone maker's chief design officer, who is working on all aspects of Apple's look, including retail.

"It reflects the freshness and optimism of the brand," said Enrique Atienza, a senior marketing director at Apple.

The iPhone case display contains drawers that open to store cases for sale at Apple's newly renovated campus store in Cupertino on Sept. 19, 2015. (LiPo Ching/Bay Area News Group)

Visitors are greeted with a bright, calming environment with mostly glass walls that reflect the greenery outside. Simple wood benches in the center reminded me of a Buddhist temple, offering a place to relax, meditate or marvel.

But then there is the pizazz: a giant video wall showcasing product imagery; neat displays of all of Apple's core products, including the Apple Watch, iPads and iPhones; a wall of colorful Beats headphones; and a wall of colorful iPhone cases.

For the fans and the tourists, a cornucopia of tasteful souvenirs awaits.

There is a line of black T-shirts, for $29, decorated with little inside icon jokes, such as the symbol for the brightness controls in the device's settings and the image for someone typing in chat. Classic T-shirts with the Apple logo come in eight different colors in six different sizes, also for $29.

The Apple stainless steel water bottles are fashionable, made by S'Well. A $35 Apple pen, made in Texas, has a mechanism from Japan and refills from Germany.

The mugs -- amazingly there are mugs -- are "handcrafted" from Japan and come in two different sizes, $25 and $29. Linen-covered notebooks for sale are the same size as an iPad and iPad mini and come in three colors, for $19, $25 and $29.

Alas, there wasn't a keychain or a magnet in the place, and there's no Genius bar. But you can buy the fulll product line of iPhones, iPads and Macs.

Some Apple bloggers who watch every company move like retail hawks had speculated that the remodeled store would go the nostalgic route. Many would have welcomed a museum-like hall for Apple pilgrims to come and buy sentimental relics. Even I was expecting a wall devoted to founder Steve Jobs.

But Apple resisted that powerful pull from the past and filled the store instead with what it is today -- a media and technology powerhouse that also knows how to roll out the welcome mat to guests..

The store is open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday and closed on Sunday.

Contact Michelle Quinn at 510-394-4196 and mquinn@mercurynews.com. Follow her at Twitter.com/michellequinn.