Getty Images The expectations on Intel are very low this quarter, analysts say

Intel Corp. INTC, +3.09% is set to report third-quarter earnings after the market’s close on Tuesday.

While Intel’s shares have outperformed the Dow Jones Industrial Average since its last earnings report, analysts continue to keep a close eye on the state of the PC market.

In August, industry tracker IDC predicted a 9% decline in 2015 PC shipments. Last week, Intel rival Micron Technology MU, +1.77% reported a sharp 15% decline in revenues, which it blamed on near-term weakness in the PC market.

Here’s what to expect:

Earnings: Analysts expect Intel to report earnings per share of 59 cents, down from 66 cents in the year-earlier period, according to FactSet. Estimize, a fast-growing software platform that uses crowdsourcing to track earnings estimates from hedge fund executives, brokerages, sell-side and buy-side analysts, has Intel earning 60 cents per share.

Revenue: Sell-side analysts expect Intel to report revenue of $14.22 billion, according to FactSet, down from $14.55 billion in the same period last year. Contributors on Estimize are forecasting revenue of $14.25 billion.

Stock reaction: Shares of Intel have risen roughly 10% over the last three months, outperforming the Dow 30, which is down 3.5%. This week, Wedbush reiterated an outperform rating and $35 12-month price target on the stock, while MKM Partners reiterated a $40 price target and said it thinks low expectations will buoy the stock if Intel outperforms. Pacific Crest reiterated an overweight rating and $35 target, and said it expects Intel to beat expectations in the third quarter.

“We remain buyers,” said Pacific Crest analyst Michael McConnell.

What to watch for: While IDC doesn’t expect the PC market to stabilize through 2017, other data points to stronger near-term PC demand. Gartner’s third-quarter report on PC shipment data showed growth in the third quarter after two consecutive declines.

Intel could also benefit from the continued rollout of Microsoft’s Windows 10 MSFT, +1.76% which launched this summer. At a hardware event last week, Microsoft said there are more than 110 million devices operating Windows 10. Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard HPQ, +1.91% and Acer also recently unveiled new mobile hardware that will operate on next-generation chips from Intel.

More from MarketWatch