NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Amazon (AMZN - Get Report) , eat your heart out.



IBM (IBM - Get Report) on Monday said it won a $700 million cloud services contract with Etihad Airways, as it continues to showcase its cloud computing strength, fighting rivals led by Amazon Web Services, as well as Microsoft's (MSFT - Get Report) Azure unit and Alphabet/Google's (GOOG - Get Report) (GOOGL - Get Report) Cloud Platform.

The deal, which was signed last month, will allow Abu Dhabi-based Etihad to change its IT infrastructure to become more agile, while having better products for both staff and customers. In addition to the 10-year deal, IBM is developing and operating a new cloud data center in Abu Dhabi. In 2014, Etihad Airways carried 14.8 million passengers, while serving 113 destinations.

"This is a long-term, strategic partnership which will allow Etihad Airways and its partners to harness the latest technologies as we deliver our award-winning services," James Hogan, Etihad Airways' president and CEO said in a statement. "This is a game-changing agreement for Etihad Airways, for our partners and employees, and for Abu Dhabi."

The deal will serve as a framework not only for Etihad, but its partner airlines, including Alitalia, airberlin, Jet Airways, Air Serbia, Air Seychelles and Etihad Regional.

Must Read: IBM Is Aiming for $40 Billion of Revenue From Five Growth Areas

Martin Jetter, senior vice president, IBM Global Technology Services, credited his company's presence in the cloud as being key to its winning the contract. "By partnering with IBM in this transformation journey, Etihad Airways is accelerating the move to new technologies such as cloud computing and cognitive," Jetter said in a statement. "These technologies will help the airline to improve efficiencies and achieve its ambitious growth plans as a globally integrated aviation group."

Earlier this year, Amazon broke out its cloud computing segment, Amazon Web Services, allowing investors to see what kind of growth the business is offering. In the second quarter, Amazon said AWS generated $1.82 billion, up 81% year over year.

In 2013, the CIA awarded a high-profile contract to Amazon, bypassing IBM. At the time, the government agency said that even though IBM's contract would cost less, Amazon's offer had better technical prowess, leaving IBM behind. In recent months, the two companies have been throwing jabs at each other about whose cloud business is bigger.

Over the past twelve months, IBM has generated $8.7 billion in cloud-based revenue, up more than 70% year over year. At its investor day earlier this year, IBM said it wants to generate $40 billion in revenue over the next five years, from areas such as cloud, mobility, data analytics, security and social.

Despite the strength in the company's cloud business, overall revenue at Armonk, N.Y.-based IBM has declined since 2011, when full-year revenue was $106.92 billion, to $92.8 billion in 2014.