NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- October is here, but before the fall festivals and pumpkin pie, it's time to take a fresh look at investment portfolios. Dividend stocks are a popular option when considering additions to a portfolio. The right choices can lead to steady income. Tha's good in good times and bad. Below is a list of three strong dividend stocks. Caterpillar (CAT - Get Report) , Microsoft (MSFT - Get Report) and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ - Get Report) are industry leaders that should continue to post consistently solid results.

Caterpillar

At a five-year high dividend yield of 4.32%, Caterpillar's stock is probably one of the most attractive income-generators on the market today.

Given it's long history and strong brand, the long-term potential of this company shouldn't worry you. In fact, it recently announced its largest oil and gas -related order in its history, with plans to deliver 39 natural gas compression engines.

Must Read: 5 Hated Stocks You Should Love

To be sure, in late September, the company announced the layoff of 10,000 workers due to reduced demand. Caterpillar hopes to save $1.5 billion in operating costs. The the stock price has also languished over the first three quarters of this year. But a 9% rise in share price this quarter shows all the right signs of a healthy recovery.

The company is also trading at a P/E of 12 while other industrial equipment makers Illinois Tool Works (ITW - Get Report) and ABB (ABB - Get Report) are trading at more than 16 times earnings, and offer less than a 3% dividend yield to boot. It's a no-brainer to consider this dividend leader that has been paying cash dividend since its formation in 1925 (Here's a list of other dividend stocks offering 11% yields, almost entirely tax-free).

Microsoft

The technology giant has rarely disappointed dividend investors and now offers a strong 3.06% yield.

It's been a decent year for Microsoft so far. A new CEO at the helm, a successful new product in Xbox One, and a gradual but relevant move towards Cloud-based software have given the company a boost.

Windows revenue fell in the June quarter. But Xbox and Bing search engine ad revenue grew 27% and 21% respectively, and commerical cloud revenue skyrocketed 88%. A positive market response to Surface Book offers one more reason to expect continued solid results.



Last month, Microsoft announced a 16% increase in its dividend compared to the 11% increase last year. The only concern at this point should be a relatively expensive valuation of 32 times earnings for this mature company, while the industry trades closer to 25 times.