By Levi Sumagaysay / October 5, 2015 at 9:27 AM

“If you never knew Steve, you probably work with someone who did or who was here when he led Apple. Please stop one of us today and ask what he was really like.”

— Tim Cook, Apple CEO, in a memo to employees this morning about company co-founder Steve Jobs, who died four years ago.

The Telegraph has more from Cook’s memo:

What is his legacy? I see it all around us: An incredible team that embodies his spirit of innovation and creativity. The greatest products on earth, beloved by customers and empowering hundreds of millions of people around the world. Soaring achievements in technology and architecture. Experiences of surprise and delight. A company that only he could have built. A company with an intense determination to change the world for the better.

Cook also reminded the world about Jobs in a tweet this morning.

Remembering Steve for who he was and what he stood for. We honor him by continuing the work he loved so much. pic.twitter.com/6UiXBjYe3l — Tim Cook (@tim_cook) October 5, 2015

The anniversary of the iconic leader’s death comes amid renewed interest in his life: “Steve Jobs,” the movie based on the biography written by Walter Isaacson, is coming to movie theaters Friday.

Jobs, who died at age 56 of pancreatic cancer, cooperated with the writing of Issacson’s book. But the Wall Street Journal reports that Jobs’ “allies,” including widow Laurene Powell Jobs, sought to “kill the film” because they think it highlights the negative. Jobs was brilliant but temperamental, something that came through loud and clear in the book. Not surprisingly, the movie trailers have focused on the more dramatic aspects of his life.

During a recent appearance on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” Cook said he thought makers of movies about Jobs are being “opportunistic” — something that sparked a heated response from “Steve Jobs” screenwriter Aaron Sorkin, who reportedly said: “If you’ve got a factory full of children in China assembling phones for 17 cents an hour, you’ve got a lot of nerve calling someone else opportunistic.” Sorkin later apologized.

But Steve Wozniak, the Apple co-founder who hasn’t always spoken glowingly of Jobs, told the Journal the movie “did a great job.” He was paid $200,000 to be a consultant on the “Steve Jobs” film, according to the Journal.

Another film about Jobs, a documentary called “Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine” that was released last month, also was highly critical of the late CEO. From Karen D’Souza’s review: “While much of what [Alex] Gibney lays out has been covered before, few have taken the pains to connect the dots of Jobs’ greed and ruthless nature so forcefully.”

Photo: Steve Jobs, then Apple’s CEO, holds up an iPhone in 2007. (Associated Press)

Share this: Email

Twitter

Facebook

LinkedIn

Reddit

Google

More

Pinterest

Tumblr





Tags: Apple, movie, Steve Jobs, Tim Cook