Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRKB) may be able to avoid the dreaded designation of "systemically important," which would require it to set aside additional capital to hedge against failure and subject the company to more regulations.

General Electric (NYSE:GE) separately appears on the verge of getting out from under the label after selling about $30 billion worth of commercial-lending and leasing assets to Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) on Tuesday.

Warren Buffett's influence in Washington may keep regulators from deeming reinsurers like Berkshire Hathaway's General Re as too big to fail, the Financial Times reported.

Regulators at the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council, an agency created under the post-recession Dodd-Frank Act to prevent big business failures from disrupting the economy, have laid out plans to label big insurers such as AIG (NYSE:AIG), Munich-based Allianz (OTCPK:AZSEY) and Prudential Financial (NYSE:PRU) as systemically important, or too big to fail.

The Bank of England wrote to the Treasury Department in April, urging that it take a hard look at reinsurers, companies that insure insurance companies, including Berkshire Hathaway, the report said.

But Walter Kielholz, head of Zurich-based reinsurer Swiss Re, told the Financial Times in an interview that he expects regulators will opt not to designate reinsurers as a group as systemically important. Kielholz said he thinks the drive to give reinsurers the label will be dropped.

Berkshire Hathaway stock rose to an all-time high at 152.67 on Dec. 18, but it's drifted down this year.

It hit a 2015 intraday low of 125.50 on Aug. 24, down 22% from the high, before rebounding. Berkshire shares closed down 0.8% at 131.18 Wednesday amid a modest pullback on the stock market today. AIG fell 1.1%, and Prudential slid 0.9%.

General Electric Sells Financing Unit To Wells Fargo

Meanwhile, General Electric on Tuesday announced it would sell its GE Capital Global Commercial Distribution Finance, North American Vendor Finance and Corporate Finance platforms to Wells Fargo for an undisclosed price. The financial businesses together have about $32 billion in assets and 3,000 employees.

With that, it will have sold $126 billion in financial assets as it reorganizes to focus on core manufacturing and industrial operations.

Keith Sherin, GE Capital chairman and CEO, said in a press statement that "GE Capital expects to file an application in 2016 for de-designation as a Systemically Important Financial Institution as its footprint in the U.S. will be significantly reduced."

GE, which reports Friday morning, was down 1% Wednesday. Wells Fargo, which reported Q3 earnings Wednesday morning, slid 0.7%.

Follow James DeTar on Twitter @IBD_JDeTar and Facebook.