Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Riverfront Sites & Lodge Suites Available Now

Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson has bought a $6.7 million mansion in the Meydenbauer Bay area of Bellevue on Shoreland Drive.

While the whole transaction is shrouded in legalese and lawyers from coast to coast, the Puget Sound Business Journal has learned that the home belonged to former Microsoft manager Harish Naidu and his wife Shalini Naidu.

Harish Naidu started at Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) in 1988 and rose steadily through the ranks until 2011, when he left the company to run a Bellevue unit of Scantron called GlobalScholar.

Built in 2008, the Bellevue home went on the market at $8.8 million in 2010 and has been on and off the selling block at various prices ever since.

An early listing had this description: “This Mediterranean is truly unique. Sitting above Lake Washington with 220 degree views. Spectacular finishes suited for your world class buyer, 500-year-old hand carved entry, custom crafted cabinets carved by Romanian artists, marble, granite and wrought throughout. Panoramic views from every room.”

The mansion is 10,210 square feet on 0.67 acres with 84 feet of high bank waterfront. It is extremely private, but not gated.

It has towering ceilings, Mediterranean finishes inside and out, a master bedroom with glass turret providing a 180-degree view of everything, but no one can see in. The master suite is one of the seven bedrooms in the home and there are also seven bathrooms.

The kitchen is custom-made with an enormous center island. The media room or theater has huge Tibetan doors. There is a great area for poker, and a wine cellar for 2,000 bottles of vino.

It’s a close-in walk to Old Bellevue, and not far from Bellevue High School where Russell Wilson’s sister is going, and will be playing on the girls’ basketball team.

TMZ is describing the house as “insane,” but those in the know say it is a perfect private sanctuary for Wilson who has been looking for a house for several years. Seattle’s Laurelhurst neighborhood was where folks thought he would land, close to Children’s Hospital where he is so active in helping youngsters in need.

Patti Payne is a columnist for the Puget Sound Business Journal. She can be reached at 206-234-6827.

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Riverfront Sites & Lodge Suites Available Now