EMC CEO Joe Tucci, shown here in a 2005 photo shortly before adding company chairman to his title, represents the last of the old-tech CEO guard. (Photo: Eileen Blass, USA TODAY)

SAN FRANCISCO — A tech leadership era has ended. Perhaps not a moment too soon.

Dell's stunning $67 billion purchase of EMC Monday signals not only the possible resurrection of Michael Dell and his Austin, Texas, PC company, but also the imminent retirement of Joe Tucci, 67, who for 15 years has tightly gripped the reins of his Hopkinton, Mass.-based data storage provider.

In stepping down, Tucci joins other departing titans of the '90s tech boom, notably Oracle's Larry Ellison, 71 (he became executive chairman last fall after 37 years as CEO), Cisco System's John Chambers, 66 (executive chairman after being CEO since 1995) and Microsoft's Steve Ballmer, 59 (now disconnected from the company after 13 years as CEO).

Today's new cloud- and mobile-first age is being guided by the next generation of leaders such as Salesforce founder Marc Benioff, 50, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, 48 and, of course, Dell, 50, who is unique in straddling both the hardware and cloud eras with his once-again privately held company.

This leadership transition spells good news for the tech industry, analysts say, not because of ageist views of leadership but rather because it highlights the critical need for CEOs of any age to assume that the only way to keep their companies vibrant is to be prepared to reinvent them — characteristics that seemed almost understandably lacking in the old guard considering the staggering successes they enjoyed.

Put simply, when you think the good times will never end due to your market dominance, you're not prepared for the inevitable bad times.

"Guys like Ellison and Chambers had an instrumental role in creating the technology landscape that we see today, but the problem was that that success meant they often missed out on the key tech trends," says Daniel Ives of FBR Capital Markets. "They seemed to display an inability to look in the mirror and shift strategy."

Michael Dell, CEO of his eponymous company, shows of a new tablet at an event on Oct. 8. (Photo: Mark Von Holden, AP Images for Dell)

Tucci and EMC are a case in point. For years, there was mounting pressure from investors to either break up the 36-year-old company into various brands, such as VMware and Pivotal, or sell. Tucci himself hinting at stepping aside, but as chairman of his own board he felt no pressure to do so. Finally, under pressure this year from activist investor Elliott Management, which invested $1 billion into the $56 billion company, Tucci shifted gears that led to conversations with Dell.

"If you're busy running the board you might not really be watching for the next big trends in your business," says Holger Mueller, principal analyst at Constellation Research. "This new era of tech is all about moving your company to the next level and taking on the higher risks associated with that. But in the end, it's really not an option. Leaders like Tucci and Chambers didn't have the critical pieces to move forward in the new tech economy."

Adds Ives: 'This isn't about age, it's about the dangers of experiencing unparalleled success early on and thinking it'll always be that way. The mythical CEO types aren't waking up worried about their jobs, so as a result they're often cruising along in their horse and buggies while guys like Benioff are passing them in their Ferraris."

To be clear, Chambers was critical to growing Cisco over the past 20 years from a $2 billion hardware manufacturer to a $48 billion services company. But along the way were missteps such as its $590 million purchase in 2009 of the Flip mini-camcorder, which proved to a fleeting tech phenomenon. Ellison captained Oracle to huge growth in the database software space, only to see one of its star salespeople of the '90s, Benioff, start his own company hinged on the futuristic notion that companies ultimately would pivot to cloud-based solutions to data management.

Steve Ballmer, the controversial former CEO of Microsoft, cheers during a recent Los Angeles Clippers game, a team the billionaire purchased upon retiring from the Redmond, Wash-based tech giant. (Photo: David J. Philip, AP)

Ultimately, Ballmer's tenure at Microsoft, a company started by his college buddy Bill Gates, proved among the most controversial in the recent annals of tech. Once an undisputed and often vilified monopolistic giant in the emerging field of personal and enterprise computing, the Redmond, Wash-based company had become cocky to the point of all but ignoring a few critical trends including smartphones, cloud computing and social networking.

Ives cites Microsoft's Nadella as a prime example of the kind of leadership that tech firms large and small need today, one typified by a desire to reinvent the company (in Microsoft's case as a cloud-computing enterprise platform) while making difficult decisions in the process (such as writing off the bulk of Ballmer's acquisition of Finnish handset maker Nokia). "Nadella should teach a course on how you change a company's course and culture," says Ives.

The Dell-EMC news - EMC's stock was up 1.6% to $28.33 in late day trading Monday - ultimately challenges the notion that leaders of once dominant tech concerns can bask in the glow of past glories. Ives predicts that today's deal will cause companies such as Cisco, Oracle and Hewlett-Packard (led now, respectively, by Chuck Robbins, 49; co-CEOs Mark Hurd, 58, and Safra Catz, 53; and Meg Whitman, 59, to be more aggressive in pivoting their business strategies if market shifts demand them.

"These last years have had dark days for some of the biggest names in tech, with EMC being front and center," he says. "Today's deal is a shot across the bow that will cause tech CEOs to wake up."

Follow USA TODAY tech reporter Marco della Cava on Twitter @marcodellacava.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1RCPNTI