In Boulder, Colo., iPhone buyers lined up well before dawn to snag the newest Apple device, Trevor Hughes reports. USA TODAY

Jonathan Pierrard, 26, from Rossignol, Belgium is the first customer to leave with the new iPhone 6S at The Apple Store in Paris, after waiting in line since Thursday night. (Photo: Francois Mori, AP)

The annual tech tradition of lining up outside Apple stores for the next iPhone resumed Friday, as consumers wait to snag the tech giant's latest mobile devices: the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus.

In Los Angeles, Calif., iPhone buyers lined up at a local mall to get their hands on Apple's latest iteration of the iPhone. Some buyers even enrolled in Apple's new leasing program.

The new iPhones launched in 12 countries Friday, including the U.S. and China, a growing market for both Apple and other smartphone makers.

This year's release introduced some subtle tweaks, including 3D Touch that gauges the pressure users apply to the touchscreen, a 12-megapixel, rear-facing camera and Live Photos to add animations to your images.

Few hundred diehards want their iPhones. 5th Ave NYC pic.twitter.com/wLkfOUIecj — Ed Baig (@edbaig) September 25, 2015

Last week, Apple said the new smartphones are on pace to top last year's record for opening weekend sales. Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster projects Apple will sell 12 to 13 million iPhones during its launch weekend.

"Customer response to the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus has been incredibly positive," said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing, in a statement Friday.

Sales of the 6S models should perform better "because of wider country availability early, especially China," says Ian Fogg, director of mobile analysis at IHS Technology. "The biggest innovations that Apple has done have typically been on the S series. On the surface the product looks the same, but under the bonnet it’s totally different."

S&P Capital IQ analyst Angelo Zino forecasts Apple will ship 76 million iPhones during the critical December quarter, up from 74.5 million the year before.

At Apple’s flagship Fifth Avenue store in New York, an estimated few hundred people queued up to get their new iPhones, but the scene was more subdued than iPhone launches past, perhaps because the Pope was in town.

Twenty-five year-old Lithuanian visual communication design student Justina Siciunaite was the first to get an iPhone at this particular store, specifically the new rose gold colored-6S. She did not trade in her existing 5S. And though she reserved her phone in advance, she got on line at 2 a.m. ET.

She gets her iPhone pic.twitter.com/gOVJtUWB2l — Ed Baig (@edbaig) September 25, 2015

Siciunaite is surprised all this attention. “It’s so weird, oh my god. I’m blushing. I’m still shaking.” she said. Still, when she came out of the store with her new purchase, she was not shy about hamming it up for the cameras.

Siciunaite says she is very excited about the new Live Photos feature, as well as 3D Touch.

An unabashed Apple fan, she will be buying the new iPad Pro when it comes out later in the fall. “I’m going to buy one.” Will she be first in line again? “I’ll try my best.”

In San Francisco, buying the new iPhone 6S was crucial to avoiding "phone envy" in their marriage, said Luke and Audrey Whiting, both 29.

“We’d been on an every-other-year buying plan,” said Audrey. “But I’ve got the 5 and she’s got the 6, so we were off,” said Luke.

They signed up for the monthly payment plan to get the phones. “It’s great, it’s kind of ‘set it and forget it,’” said Luke.

Kevin Siu, 50, has been buying iPhones since they first came out. “I love Apple, I get a new phone every year,” he said. He pre-ordered an iPhone 6s Plus but couldn’t wait for it to arrive sometime later today, so he stopped by the Apple store in downtown San Francisco when it opened to get a look at the new phone.

Siu likes the larger 5.5-inch screen on the new Plus. “It’s easier to read and if you’ve got one, you don’t need to get an iPad to read books and watch movies,” he said.

As Apple drifts toward another potential record weekend, the real test comes next year with the likely launch of the iPhone 7, says Fogg, by keeping 6S sales chugging in a mature smartphone market while unveiling a major redesign to push upgrades. "This will be a greater challenge than achieving success in 2015 where Apple has benefitted from the straightforward switch to offering larger screen iPhones."

Contributing: Elizabeth Weise in San Francisco, Ed Baig in New York

Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Kz1OXG