With reports that Apple is on a hiring spree to manufacture an electric car for 2019 release, Jefferson Graham ponders what an i-Car might look like on #talkingtech.

Apple has $202.8 billion in cash and marketable securities on its balance sheet. (Photo: John Taggart, Bloomberg)

SAN FRANCISCO — Apple fans may find themselves test driving far more than a new iPhone soon.

By 2019, drivers might see the first electric cars on the road brandishing the Cupertino, Calif., company's famous logo.

Apple is speeding up its plans to manufacture and ship an electric car in four years, According to The Wall Street Journal. The report says Apple is moving forward after investigating options for more than a year, as well as recently meeting with government officials in California. The report also says that Apple's first vehicles may not be autonomous.

Citing "people familiar with the matter," the report says Apple has plans to triple the 600-employee team behind the car project, which has been code-named Titan. Other evidence the long-rumored move could be real include leaked reports, first published in London's The Guardian, that Apple has been in conversations with a decommissioned military facility east of San Francisco that could host an automotive testing site.

But by far the biggest proof point is the considerable hiring of engineers with automotive backgrounds that the company has done in recent months. Some have come from Elon Musk's successful electric car company, Tesla, which some analysts have suggested could be a natural acquisition target for cash-rich Apple, and a quick way to buy itself into the often vexing auto manufacturing business.

Company officials remain mum about the hardware move. Apple CEO Tim Cook recently told talk show host Stephen Colbert, who asked about the project, "We look at a humber of things along the way, and we decide to really put our energies in a few of them."

If true, Apple's automotive venture would be a bold and ambitious move. It would also be in keeping with the company's often-repeated approach of refining already existing products, frequently redefining those very categories as it did with portable music players (iPods), smartphones (iPhones) and tablets (iPads).

Regardless of Apple's impressive track record, it would face stiff competition giving the growing number of entrants in the space. Besides autonomous vehicle pioneer Google, which has been testing its fleet of self-driving cars since 2009, ride-hailing giant Uber has also made noises about replacing its drivers with robots and has been hiring experts from Carnegie Mellon University at a fast clip.

A range of traditional automakers, from Audi to Volvo, have stepped up their Silicon Valley-based research and development labs in order to speed up work not on self-driving cars but rather on tech that gives drivers improved driver-assist tech, specifically for situations when traffic is slow.

Google in particular has made clear that when it comes time to mass-produce its pod-like two-person self-driving car, which is currently testing in Mountain View, Calif., and Austin, Texas, it will seek a partnership with an existing automaker to ease the considerable financial and regulatory burden that comes with automotive manufacturing.

Apple traditionally has never been big on partnerships or co-branding.

Gartner's automotive practice leader Thilo Koslowski isn't the least bit surprised that Apple might be eyeing a production vehicle, given how cars have morphed from horsepower-focused machines to rolling software platforms.

"The car is now the ultimate mobile device, so if I'm a big technology company looking at automobiles that are largely software driven, I'd be thinking, 'Hey, that's us,'" he says.

Koslowski adds that while the auto industry is known for its traditionally low profit margins, "maybe that's just the old way of looking at a business that will be changed. From a tech company perspective, perhaps you're not looking at cars as single ownership products, but more as shared devices that you'll focus on in specific geographies."

Many auto and tech analysts have posited that in the near future urban centers could give way to sensor-driven autonomous vehicles as a way to reduce pollution and free up lucrative real estate currently given over the cars.

While Apple could well fast track its move into the automotive space by buying an existing manufacturer, Koslowski says that isn't necessary to get into this product arena.

"I can guarantee you that there are traditional automotive manufacturers that would offer up excess capacity on their production lines, particularly if the economy got tight," he says.

Follow USA TODAY technology reporters Brett Molina @brettmolina23 and Marco della Cava @marcodellacava

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1FblX7p