Stocks opened a rung higher but quickly slipped into mixed terrain Friday, as earnings reports drove divergent results in early trade. The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 each inched up less than 0.1%. The Nasdaq dipped to a 0.1% loss.

The stock market today rumbled out in heavy trade, with options-expiration activity helping lift volume 18% on the Nasdaq and 67% on the NYSE, compared with action at the same time Thursday.

Economic news kicked in just ahead of the open, with the Federal Reserve reporting industrial production slipped 0.2% in September. That doubled August's 0.1% decline (revised from an initial estimate of -0.4%) but was better than economists' consensus forecast for a 0.3% slip. Factory utilization edged lower to 77.5%, down from 77.8% and just above forecasts of 77.4%.

The Labor Department's Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey showed the number of unfilled positions offered by U.S. companies contracted to 5.37 million in August, easing from a downwardly revised 5.67 million figure in July.

Consumer sentiment stepped higher in September, with the University of Michigan raising its preliminary Consumer Sentiment Index to 92.1 for the month. That was well above August's 87.2 reading, as well as consensus forecasts for 89.5.

In early stock action, Barbie stumbled, but Mattel (NASDAQ:MAT) flashed ahead 4% despite reporting weaker-than-forecast third-quarter sales and earnings. A strong dollar and declining Barbie sales drove the miss, management said.

General Electric (NYSE:GE) buzzed up 2%. The Fairfield, Conn. diversified giant reported Q3 sales and earnings declines — but still above expectations — weighed by declining oil-industry revenue and by costs related to the pending separation of its GE Financial Services business. The gain put GE shares just below a 28.78 buy point in a six-month cup base.

Paycom Software (NYSE:PAYC) rolled up a 5% gain in early trade, breaking out above a 41.68 buy point. The very heavy volume gain left shares less than 1% above the buy point.

Quanta Services (NYSE:PWR) crashed 19% after lowering its Q3 earnings and revenue guidance, while warning that fourth-quarter results are also likely to be affected. Delays among large-scale transmission projects are leading to increased competition for contracts in smaller projects, management said.

Oil traded higher, with West Texas Intermediate up nearly 2% to $47.30 a barrel, but still down nearly 5% for the week. Oil prices are likely to remain in focus today on the approach to the release of the Baker-Hughes (NYSE:BHI) weekly rig count report at 1 p.m. ET.

Follow Alan Elliott on Twitter @IBD_AElliott.