Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Secluded Oasis

Enlarge Rendering of Microsoft flagship store on Fifth Avenue in New York City.

Microsoft today announced that its first ever flagship retail location will open to the public on Monday, Oct. 26, and published a rendering of what the store will look like.

The massive outlet at 677 Fifth Avenue, at 53rd Street, will make Apple's flagship location just up the street with the famous glass cube, and a rumored Google flagship in Soho, look like mere franchises.

Enlarge Rendering of Microsoft flagship store on Fifth Avenue in New York City.

“We are eager to open our doors to those in Manhattan,” wrote Microsoft vice president of worldwide retail and online stores, David Porter, in a blog post. “The five-floor, 22,269 square foot location will be a premier venue to learn about, experience and shop for the products and services from Microsoft and our partners.”

Know a successful, inspirational, dynamic N.Y. woman in business? Nominate her to be part of our 2nd Women of Influence celebration.

Microsoft calls the store its “first ever” flagship location. The store is more than twice the size of Apple’s Fifth Avenue flagship, which measures out at a piddly 10,000 square feet, according to Macworld.

Last year Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) generated $86 billion revenue, according to its annual report. The company distributes its retail packaged products and hardware mostly through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets such as Wal-Mart and Dixons.

But until this year there hasn’t been a single store around which Microsoft’s retail brand can generate a sense of identity. Apple opened its flagship store in May 2006. Last year Crain’s reported that Google was interested in an 8,000 square-foot location in SoHo.

Microsoft plans to start hosting a line for the launch event on Monday, October 26 at 6:00am in front of the store. Grand Opening ceremonies are set to begin at 11:30am with the store officially opening its doors at 12:00pm. According to the post store staff will come from all five boroughs and surrounding areas, and speak 19 different languages.

Also announced today, Microsoft plans to open another flagship store at Westfield Sydney on Pitt Street on Thursday, Nov. 12, at noon Australian time.

“Today, we get one step closer to expanding our direct, face-to-face connection with Microsoft fans,” wrote Porter. “And are happy to share grand opening dates for both Microsoft flagship stores.” As part of the double-launch Microsoft says it will donate $5 million in software and technology grants to select local organizations. Michael del Castillo covers fintech, bitcoin, manufacturing and Silicon Alley technology startups for the New York Business Journal. He also contributes to the Upstart Business Journal.

Home of the Day Sponsor Listing Secluded Oasis