Ford's MyFord Mobile app has just made its way over to smartwatches, allowing owners of the company's electric and hybrid vehicles at-a-glance vehicle information. (Photo: Ford)

SAN FRANCISCO -- The last time Ford CEO Mark Fields made a trek to the company's expanded Silicon Valley outpost, his wrist was brandishing a gleaming Apple Watch. Turns out, it wasn't just for tech bragging rights.

Ford unveiled its MyFord Mobile app for both Apple Watch and Android Wear Thursday, which allows owners of electric or plug-in hybrid models -- C-MAX Energi, Ford Focus Electric and Ford Fusion Energi -- to access a suite of data from their wrists.

Designed to display correctly on either rectangular or round smartwatch faces, the MyFord Mobile app provides information such as range and charge status of the battery, last trip summary, vehicle location when returning to the car, mileage summary, as well as remote locking/unlocking and the ability to initiate preconditioning of the cabin.

The news comes in the middle of the Frankfurt Motor Show, where connected and alt-fuel cars such as Porsche's E-Mobility four-door concept - a would-be rival to Tesla's Model S sedan - have stolen much of the limelight away from traditional gasoline-fueled models.

Increasingly, automobiles are being defined by their processing power and electronic features. This direction is being accelerated by the concerted efforts of tech companies such as Google (which may soon team with an automaker to build its autonomous cars and recently named an auto-veteran CEO to head its project) and Apple (which hasn't divulged its intentions but has been hiring auto-focused engineers at a rapid pace).

Ford and other automakers are eager to retain a measure of control of the in-car experience, and have been building out technology research and development labs in the Bay Area to create the sort of interactive experiences consumers increasingly are demanding. Among the companies with tech outposts in the region are BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Honda and Volkswagen.

The Ford smartwatch app fits into the new tech-centric mission. Beyond offering convenience and gamifying the driving experience - last trip summaries include scores based on how much a hybrid was driven in electric-only mode - the at-a-glance nature of the app could even promote civility, says David Hatton, manager of connected vehicles and services.

“The app can notify users when their car is fully charged, helping a driver be courteous to other electric vehicle owners so they can free up the charging spot or avoid fees applied at some charging stations when you overrun your time after the charge is complete," he says.

The MyFord Mobile app for smartwatches is available in the Apple App Store and on Google Play.

Follow USA TODAY tech reporter Marco della Cava @marcodellacava

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1iSxka4