Twitter interim CEO Jack Dorsey. (Photo: Justin Tallis, AFP/Getty Images)

SAN FRANCISCO — A prodigal son triumphantly returns to the beleaguered tech company he co-founded, like a superhero flying to the rescue.

While saving the day, our caped crusader runs another tech company that he founded.

Sound familiar?

On Wednesday, Re/code reported Jack Dorsey, who has served as interim chief executive the past three months, could return as permanent CEO as early as Thursday. Twitter had no comment.

Dorsey is in familiar, if rarefied territory: Not only would he gain a Second Act as Twitter's freshly minted CEO and conquering hero, he would technically be running two companies, mobile-payments start-up Square being the other. The last tech exec to pull off such a feat was Steve Jobs, whom Dorsey patterns himself after, with his legendary dual-stewardship of Apple and Pixar Animation Studios, beginning in the late 1990s. He, too, resumed control of the company he loved following an ouster and quixotic journey back.

Each man maneuvered to regain a job he once held and regained — primarily because his predecessor bungled badly.

Former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo stepped down in June shortly after the microblogging site laid an egg in its first quarter. Worsening matters, shares have toppled 40% since the company surged in its November 2013 initial public offering debut while concerns mount about the public's indifference to the service.

It's a comparison Dorsey, an unabashed fan of Jobs, would embrace — and perhaps was plotting for more than a year.

Investors have thrown their support behind Dorsey, who was throughout the search process a leading candidate for the position. The stock reflected their enthusiasm: Twitter TWTR shares rallied 5% in trading Wednesday.

Yes, Jack is evidently back — and there is hope in Twitter-ville. Why? Primarily because Dorsey, like Jobs before him, intimately knows the corporate DNA of Twitter better than anyone else.

Steve Jobs smiles after a press conference as he opens the Apple Expo in Paris on Sept. 20, 2005. (Photo: Christophe Ena, AP)

Steve Jobs, the co-founder of Apple. (Photo: Magnolia Pictures)

When Jobs returned as the triumphant hero at Apple, he came with the acquisition of his NeXT Computer company. Apple had fallen on hard times, and was gasping amid hundreds of millions of dollars in losses and a woeful product line. Things were so bad, some wondered if Sun Microsystems might buy Apple.

Of course, Jobs had an easier act to follow than Dorsey: Dr. Gilbert Amelio, whose comical ineptness was matched only by his clueless arrogance. By the time the "Doctor" was shown the emergency door, Apple was in tatters and the subject of takeover rumors. Jobs would derisively refer to a botched act as an "Amelio."

Jobs not only rescued Apple with iPod, iPhone and iPad, but oversaw the emergence of Pixar as an Academy Award-winning studio with a string of popular hits, such as Toy Story, Up and The Incredibles. He led both companies to a decade of unbridled growth and critical acclaim rarely seen in corporate America.

The laundry list of woes at Twitter is daunting: Stagnant user growth. Intensifying competition from Facebook, Google and Yahoo. A steady stream of executive departures.

Twitter apparently hit rock bottom in August, when its stock dipped below its IPO price. The wayward company can go nowhere but up. This summer, Square filed confidential paperwork to sell stock to the public, according to published reports in the New York Times and others, citing unnamed sources. The sticking point is whether Twitter will allow Jack to run Square at the same time.

The comparison between Jobs and Dorsey, both of whom covet design and the consumer experience, is somewhat apt.

Jobs looms larger than ever, nearly four years after his death. A forthcoming film on his life is generating Oscar buzz while his influence on tech stars such as Dorsey, Marissa Mayer and Mark Zuckerberg is indisputable. Zuckerberg on Sunday recounted the influence Jobs has had on him during a Q&A with India Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Timing is everything in tech, and Dorsey's timing with Twitter is impeccable.

Follow USA TODAY's San Francisco Bureau Chief Jon Swartz on Twitter: @jswartz.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1KM8EJv