The first of USA Today's live panel series on people making an impact in the world. In this session, venture capitalist Shruti Gandhi, entrepreneur Tristan Walker, startup founder Meredith Perry, and retail titan Ron Johnson discuss disruption. USA TODAY

(l-r)Jon Swartz, Shruti Gandhi, Tristan Walker, Meredith Perry, Ron Johnson, Marco Della Cava at a USA TODAY Change Agents Live panel on Sept. 29, 2015 in San Francisco. (Photo: Chris Schodt for USA TODAY)

SAN FRANCISCO – Disruption is part of the special sauce for start-up success. Whether it's enviable or overblown, how do founders make disruption happen?

See the problem, try to solve it, and be ready to flip it on its head, said Meredith Perry, founder and CEO of uBeam, a Santa Monica, Calif. company creating ultrasound wireless phone chargers. Don't just sit around and talk about it.

"They say don't try to reinvent the wheel, but I reinvent the wheel every single time," she said.

Perry was one of three entrepreneurs and a venture capitalist on USA TODAY's first Change Agents Live event Tuesday. They were asked the question, “How much disruption do you need to succeed?”

Perry said she wouldn't bother with uBeam if she didn't feel her solution to wireless charging wasn't just better than that of competitors, but "orders of magnitude better."

Before you can start thinking of disruption, you need an invention, and then innovation.

"My job as an investor, that is what I am here to identify: how long is this going to take, what are the returns I'm going to get from this company," said Shruti Gandhi, managing partner with Array Ventures, an early-stage venture capital fund in San Francisco.

"Out of every pitch I want to walk out thinking I've learned something new."

The entrepreneurs offered tips to the close to 80 audience members who came to Nasdaq’s new Entrepreneurial Center in San Francisco. The panel grew out of a series USA TODAY has been running for the past two years called Change Agents, focusing on entrepreneurs who are driving the growth of business in Silicon Valley and tech.

Finding problems to tackle comes from finding what you believe in that "few other people in the world believe, because also that's where innovation happens” said Tristan Walker, president and CEO of Walker & Co. Brands. The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., sells health and beauty products designed for communities of color.

He recalled pitching his idea to a venture capitalist who didn't think the market for African Americans seeking shaving products that wouldn't irritate their skin was big enough.

"At that moment I knew I had a good idea, because the only reason she said that was her lack of context," he said.

Another way is to “just do the next thing in front of you the best you possibly can,” said Ron Johnson, founder and CEO of Enjoy Technology.

That’s a lesson he said he learned while working with Steve Jobs at Apple, where Johnson was a designer of the Apple Store experience. Would-be entrepreneurs need to remember that disruption “takes a lot of time,” said Johnson.

Amazing innovation doesn’t happen overnight, it takes years of design and work. “The iPod was a disruptive player for Apple," but when it launched in 2001, Apple didn't sell that many. It took until 2004, when it went to Windows, and then "it changed the music industry,” he said.

Real disruption comes from taking risks even when “you don’t know where it’s going to lead,” said Johnson.

All the panelists talked about the necessity of giving back, but Walker cautioned against trying to do it too early on, a lesson he learned from a mentor.

“You’ve want to spend the first third of your life learning, the second part earning and the last third returning. Too many people try to put the returning thing before the earning thing, which prevents them from scaling their return,” Walker said.

Moderating were Jon Swartz, USA Today’s San Francisco bureau chief and tech reporter Marco della Cava, creator of the Change Agents series.

Perry’s advice was a cryptic mantra: “Two is one and one is none."

CEO of a company creating wireless charging devices, her start-up lives and dies by demonstrating its technology.

“You always have to assume that if you have two devices, one is going to break. And if you have one, you really have zero, because that could break, too,” she said.

Backups, and backups of backups, are crucial, she said.

Choosing what to focus on is another question entrepreneurs grapple with.

When presented with a possible new product or new company, Gandhi said she always steps back to consider what the world would look like if the person pitching to her were successful and the thing they wanted to create was already in existence.

Then, she asks herself this question: If the product were created, "What the world look like and would you want to be part of that world?"

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1KKnsbx