Plunging oil prices and weak global demand are weighing heavily on U.S. industry, fresh economic data and gloomy corporate earnings confirmed Friday.

Industrial production fell 0.2% in September, its second straight decline, the Federal Reserve reported. Output rose only 0.4% vs. a year earlier. Manufacturing slid 0.1% vs. August, the fourth decline in five months.

The energy slump that began last year has battered production. In September, mining was down 6% from 2014, and drilling activity was less than half its year-earlier level.

Oilfield services firm Schlumberger (NYSE:SLB) late Thursday reported another quarter of sharply lower earnings and sales, both below views. It warned of further declines in drilling activity by exploration and production firms. Schlumberger will cut more jobs, it said Friday, after already laying off thousands of workers. Its stock fell 2.2%.

Pain, and a lack of confidence, is rippling across the industrial landscape. Supply retailer W.W. Grainger (NYSE:GWW) on Friday reported weak earnings and lowered guidance, citing a "challenging industrial economy in North America." Many customers have announced job cuts, "and there are indications of extended year-end holiday shutdowns. We have begun the process of aggressively adjusting our cost structure to reflect the weaker economic environment."

W.W. Grainger stock fell 6.3%.

A stronger dollar and a tepid global economy aren't helping, either. September's ISM manufacturing index teetered close to the 50 mark that separates contraction from expansion, with exports below that line. "North American business steady. International business trending bearish," one respondent told ISM. "Overall business is slowing. Consumers are nervous. Not sure what is coming next," said another.

General Electric (NYSE:GE) and Honeywell (NYSE:HON) reported better-than-expected profit but missed on sales, with the energy sector a drag for both. But investors, cheered by GE's industrial focus, sent its shares up 3.4% to a 7-year high. Honeywell, which cut its full-year revenue target, fell 1.5%.

While industrial output fell, analysts had forecast worse. Economists expect the sector to continue struggling, but some saw green shoots in the data.

Jennifer Lee, senior economist for BMO Capital Markets, said in a note Friday that she sees "strength within," noting that consumer goods production rose 1.3% in Q3, "the best reading in nearly two years."