Enlarge A group of US Marines doing push ups during an early morning boot camp exercise in Bryant… more

On top of Microsoft’s upcoming retail invasion of New York City, the software company announced today a technical training pilot program to help unemployed locals find jobs, launched in partnership with multiple city organizations.

It turns out, the 16-week “Tech Jobs Academy” was inspired directly by another Microsoft project designed to give returning military officers an education in technology.

Enlarge A group of US Marines doing push ups during an early morning boot camp exercise in Bryant… more

“What was so cool about the Microsoft Software Systems Academy is we’ve been able to help hundreds of returning veterans prepare to return to civic life,” said John Paul Farmer, Microsoft NY’s director of technology and civic innovation, and co-founder of Barack Obama’s Presidential Innovation Fellows program, during a phone conversation today.

“What we saw was a passion for tech skills that members of their community didn’t normally get,” he said.

Instead of a four-year degree, which might not be feasible for an unemployed or underemployed worker, the Tech Jobs Academy is designed to give students “expertise in cloud and server administration, including areas of focus such as network fundamentals, server infrastructure, and cloud integration,” according to a blog post Farmer published today.

The exclusive academy for just 25 New Yorkers will be run with help from the Mayor’s Tech Talent Pipeline and CUNY’s New York City College of Technology.

In May 2014 Mayor Bill de Blasio launched the Tech Talent Pipeline with about a $10 million budget to help educate New Yorkers in tech skills so that they could land jobs in the city. CUNY’s College of Technology was founded in 1946 as the New York State Institute for Applied Arts and Sciences, and offers 27 associate degrees and 24 baccalaureate degrees, in addition to helping with the academy.

An earlier study co-commissioned by advisory firm, HR&A, and co-led by Google, "The New York City Tech Ecosystem," found that 44 percent of all tech jobs in the city do not require a bachelor's degree.



“With Microsoft’s experience in the field and with CUNY’s demonstrated experience serving New Yorkers, the NYC Tech Jobs Academy presents a new training model with the potential to scale across institutions,” said Kristen Titus, founding director of the NYC Tech Talent Pipeline in the blog post. “We look forward to the opportunities born of this work.”

The academy begins Jan. 4, 2016 at the New York City College of Technology campus in downtown Brooklyn.

“We’re piloting this program with the goal of making it sustainable,” said Farmer. “It has to be a win for everyone.”

Michael del Castillo covers fintech, bitcoin, manufacturing and Silicon Alley technology startups for the New York Business Journal. He also contributes to the Upstart Business Journal.