Home of the Day Sponsor Listing The Ultimate Tahoe Escape In The Best Truckee Location - 7 Units Available At The Boulders

Enlarge The Feds are looking into whether Google is preventing competitors from accessing its… more

Google is back under the antitrust microscope.

U.S. antitrust officials are looking into whether the Mountain View-based company prevented competitors from accessing Android’s mobile operating system, according to Bloomberg on Thursday, citing individuals familiar with the situation.

Enlarge The Feds are looking into whether Google is preventing competitors from accessing its… more

Get A.M. business scoops. Subscribe to SVBJ's free morning email newsletter.

Technology company representatives told officials that Google gives priority to its own services on Android, while it limits other services from competitors. The Federal Trade Commission reached an agreement with the Justice Department that the FTC will head up the investigation.

Precedent

The Android platform bundles multiple Google products, similar to what Microsoft Windows did in the 1990s. Microsoft settled in 2002 to end its monopoly, which the U.S. government said unlawfully gave Windows an advantage by keeping other Web browsers from competing with Internet Explorer.

If Google is bundling its products and services to force consumers to buy a complementary product or service, the FTC may have a case. If consumers have a choice not to buy a bundled product, then there’s likely no problem.

Is the FTC ready to crack down?

Two years ago, the FTC ended an investigation into Google’s Internet search business without a case against the company. The then-FTC chairman Jon Leibowitz said the agency did not have enough evidence to bring a case, disappointing many companies that hoped the FTC would force Google to change its business practices.

To add insult to injury, the FTC accidently released a confidential document earlier this year that showed that staff had recommended bringing an antitrust case against Google. The document also included the names of the previously anonymous companies who had brought complaints against Google. Companies are now more reluctant to trust the FTC with confidential complaints against major tech companies.

The FTC did pursue Google for consumer fraud and the company agreed in September 2014 to refund money to consumers after the company wrongly billed for unauthorized purchases made by children on mobile applications.

Still, many question the FTC’s current desire to bring a case against one of the world’s most powerful technology companies. EU antitrust case The European Union formally accused Google of illegal and monopolistic practices in April in what could turn out to be one of the biggest antitrust cases in Europe since Microsoft. Google could be fined up to $6 billion for prioritizing its own search results and driving traffic away from other sites. The EU is also investigating the company’s Android operating system on complaints of unfair app bundling. It isn’t clear to what extent EU and U.S. antitrust investigators are cooperating, per the Bloomberg report.