Yesterday, Apple (AAPL) CEO Tim Cook unveiled the new Apple TV. So far, there is a lot of speculation and criticism surrounding the TV set-top box product. It stands to be among the most expensive set-top boxes in the market. It is largely critiqued for its high cost, as prices for the 32 and 64 gigabyte versions are $150 and $200, respectively.







Is it worth it? Let’s take a look at three key aspects about the product to see why the premium price tag may be justified.







Simplicity







A lot of the value behind the set top box comes from the Siri Remote that comes with it. The lightweight remote has advanced voice activation capabilities, thanks to Siri. This feature is great for people who have multiple TV services.







You no longer have to remember whether Hulu or Netflix has the show you want to watch, because you can just tell Siri which show you want to watch. Finding your shows isn’t the only thing Siri is good for. You can give many different kinds of advanced commands. You can ask about the weather, news, and even how your favorite sports team played last night.







The remote only has six buttons, eliminating the cluster of confusing buttons most TV remotes come with. It’s worth noting that all the buttons are in the middle, leaving the top of the remote to be used as a touchpad. This makes navigating through the menus and interface as easy as possible.







It has its own App Store







The Apple TV will have a fully operational App store. Apple is having third-party developers create exclusive apps and multiplayer games for the Apple TV. The product will use tvOS, an operating system based on iOS. It is exclusively for the Apple TV. This platform will make it easier for app developers to create apps like they would for iOS.







People have been waiting for the Apple TV to have its own app store for about 8 years, and they’ve finally got it. Apple arguably has the best app store market, so this feature is something that can’t be mimicked by other popular set-top boxes.







Versatile Gaming Capacity







Apple’s latest TV product has a 64 bit A8 chip, making for a fast and seamless experience. This is especially important for the gaming features the Apple TV boasts about. The remote has sensors built into it, so you can swing it around for gaming just like you would for a Nintendo (NTDOY) Wii remote.







If swinging the Siri Remote around isn’t your thing, and you prefer controllers with joysticks and buttons, Apple’s got you covered. The Apple TV supports MFi-based third party controllers, which are basically the same as any mainstream controller you see like the PS4 or X-Box 1. The Apple TV supports up to four controllers on one TV. It’s worth noting that Apple will have some heavy games such as the newest Guitar Hero available.







The Zacks Rank is a truly marvelous trading tool. Our ranking system has beaten the S&P 500, yielding an average return of 26% per year for the last 28 years! Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report >>





Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



APPLE INC (AAPL): Free Stock Analysis Report



NINTENDO LTD (NTDOY): Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment Research