View photo .

Apple Inc. (NASDAQ: AAPL) shares are down 13.55 percent in the last three months, despite having risen above the $130 level on July 20.

(NASDAQ: AAPL) shares are down 13.55 percent in the last three months, despite having risen above the $130 level on July 20. Citi’s Jim Suva maintained a Buy rating for the company, with a price target of $145.

Tough comps may cause some investors to exit the stock, resulting in an attractive entry point for long-term investors, Suva said.

Analyst Jim Suva mentioned that tough comps and limited potential upside in Apple’s sales and EPS in the near term may result in some investors exiting the stock. This would provide an attractive entry point for long-term investors.

“We expect Apple to outperform its competition on its contribution to industry profits,” Suva said.

Related Link: Apple iPhone Cycle May Be Shrinking, And That's Good For Growth

Apple intends to launch several new products in the near future, the most prominent being the iPad Pro, a device it considers to be more powerful than any existing iOS device. The company also intends to sell separately the new Apple Pencil for $99 which has sensors built into its tip for picking up pressure, tilt and stroke.

Apple also intends to come out with new iPhones, with a 64-bit A9 processor and M9 motion co-processor. These units will be stronger due to their Ion-X glass with new aluminum oil cases and several other features.

The company also announced a device financing program of its own. Suva commented that equipment financing could result in a slight dilution of the company’s revenues and margins in the near term besides consuming working capital. The move is, however, expected to boost adoption via annual upgrades and loyalty.

Apple also intends to offer its Apple TV with several new features.

Date Firm Action From To Sep 2015 Rosenblatt Initiates Coverage on Buy Aug 2015 Wells Fargo Upgrades Market Perform Outperform Aug 2015 Bank of America Downgrades Buy Neutral

Latest Ratings for AAPL

View More Analyst Ratings for AAPL

View the Latest Analyst Ratings

See more from Benzinga

© 2015 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.