Apple Inc. AAPL has reportedly said that the pre-orders for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are strong and in fact exceeded expectations in the opening weekend. Specially, the company has seen strong traction in China, which has been included for the first time in the initial launch.

The tech giant expects pre-orders to cross the 10 million mark (a level set by iPhone 6 last year) in the first weekend after launch. However, it’s noteworthy that the last year’s figure did not include orders from China.

According to media reports, China-based users have pre-ordered as many as 2 million units of the new smartphone, excluding which orders might have fallen short of last year’s figure.

The new iPhones that will be available from Sep 25 onward are essentially like the larger-screened iPhone 6 launched last year, except the fact that these are equipped with an upgraded processor, camera and 3D multi-touch technology. Another addition is that the new phones are available in one more color, Rose Gold.

China is a very strong market for Apple. In fact, last year, following the launch of iPhone 6, Greater China attributed as much as 20% of the company’s total revenue in the fourth quarter. Now with the inclusion of mainland China as well in the launch program, sales are expected to increase further.

This is definitely positive news for investors as healthy demand for iPhone is crucial for Apple (over 60% of revenues are generated from iPhones). The timing is also important as macroeconomic concerns in China and soft third-quarter fiscal 2015 results had resulted in shaky investors’ confidence.

After the launch on Sep 9, users were still disappointed as there weren’t many revolutionary changes in the new iPhones but the company had launched a strategic upgrade plan to boost its sales. Additionally, media reports also suggest that the new upgrade program by itself can drive iPhone sales by 50% in the coming year.

Though this pre-order data does not include whether the sales are driven by the new leasing program or not, it has definitively given some breather to loyal Apple investors.

At present, Apple carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).Better-ranked stocks in the technology sector include Google Inc. GOOGL, Pandora Media, Inc. P and Shopify Inc. SHOP. All three have a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy).

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report >>

Personal Investing Ideas & Strategies

Finance Trading

Apple

China

China

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report