Apple (AAPL) releases a new iPhone every year and this year the company held its iPhone release event on Wednesday, Sept. 9 at San Francisco's Civic Center. This year's event showcased the new iPhone 6S and 6S+. The event also featured the iPad, Apple Watch and Apple TV.

iPhone 6S and 6S+

The iPhone is Apple's greatest revenue driver accounting for 63% of revenue in the third quarter. The iPhone 6S and 6S+ are upgrades of Apple's iPhone 6. They have a new type of aluminum and a new type of glass which makes them more durable. The phones also have a faster processer, enhanced camera features and a 3D touch. Apple is offering the new iPhones in a two year contract at $32 a month with an upgrade option.

Sales projections appear to be strong for the new iPhones with Apple reportedly shipping 85 to 90 million units versus last year's shipment of 70 to 80 million units. With sales ramping up in the fourth quarter for Apple it has already exceeded its units sold in 2014. Through the first nine months of the year iPhone units sold totaled 183.17 million versus total units sold in 2014 of 169.22 million.

Sequentially, iPhone units sold in the third quarter were down from the previous quarter at 47.5 million versus 61.2 million. In the third quarter, total revenue from iPhones was $31.4 billion versus $40.3 billion in the second quarter. Revenue growth in China has been an issue for debate in the fourth quarter as Apple reported total revenue generated from Greater China in the third quarter of 27%. Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook reported in a note to Jim Cramer of TheStreet that the firm was not seeing a substantial downturn in fourth quarter sales to China and expected sales to continue to remain strong through the end of the year.

iPad

Apple's Sept. 9 event also featured a new iPad Pro which is comparable to Microsoft's (MSFT) Surface Pro and will sell for $799. The new iPad features a keyboard and a pencil which greatly add to its mobile capabilities. The new iPad will go on sale in November adding to revenue in Apple's first quarter of 2016.

Apple's iPad products are the firm's third-largest revenue generator, falling behind the Apple Mac. In the third quarter, the iPad had sales revenue of $4.5 billion, down 16% from the previous quarter.

Other products

Apple's Sept. 9 event also featured the Apple Watch and an Apple TV. Sales from both products continue to show moderate growth. Apple specifically reported on numerous upgraded features for the Apple TV which included additional Siri voice direction features and a more convenient touchscreen remote.

Apple's Other Products business segment grew substantially in the third quarter primarily due to sales from the Apple Watch. In the third quarter, the segment had total sales revenue of $2.6 billion, an increase of 56% from the second quarter.

Conclusion

Overall, the iPhone is Apple's greatest revenue driver and its release of the new iPhone versions in September will contribute meaningfully to the company's fourth quarter sales. Apple's fourth-quarter and full-year earnings are on track to steadily outpace the previous year. For the fourth quarter analysts estimate revenue growth of 21% and for the full year analysts are expecting revenue growth of 28%. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter are estimated to increase by 32% and for the full year analysts predict EPS to be up 41%. Apple's vulnerability to sales in China will be a key factor to watch in the fourth quarter as it also could have broader indications for the U.S. market overall. Given the strong initial rollout of the new iPhones and management's positive report on sales for the quarter it appears that demand could be less affected by macroeconomic issues than most speculators have predicted.

Information Technology

Apple Watch

Apple TV

This article first appeared on GuruFocus