Yes, this is a large black blimp-shaped speaker. And yes, you may just want one of your own.

Bowers & Wilkins has been making loud speakers for nearly half a century and first introduced the Zeppelin all-in-one speaker for the iPod in 2007 (this was right around when the first iPhone was announced). It got a refresh in 2011, adding Apple's Airplay streaming to the mix. The new Zeppelin Wireless, though, is the most significant update yet, removing the docking arm, refining the interface, and adding support for non-Apple devices to the Zeppelin.

Previous Zeppelin speakers were essentially docks (think iHome clock radio) for a phone or MP3 player attached to wireless hi-fi speakers. Even if you weren't using a device hard tethered to the unit, however, you had to use Apple's Airplay protocol. This means everyone not on iOS or Mac OS X was out of luck. Or if you have a mix of devices, some would work and others wouldn't. Now in addition to Airplay, the Zeppelin has standard Bluetooth, higher bandwidth Bluetooth Apt X, and Spotify Connect, so you can find a way to stream from nearly any device.

More from Bloomberg.com: In North America's Costliest City, Rich Chinese Take the Blame

The Zeppelin's design is a love-hate kind of thing. I happen to like the oblong, minimalist look; something about it reminds me of a friendlier version of the monolith in Kubrick's 2001. (A much friendlier version.) It's not just for looks, though. There are five speaker units in the Zeppelin, tweeters on the outside, then the main drivers, and a subwoofer in the center. The shape and layout minimize interference and reverberation, keeping the sound clean across the whole audio spectrum.

Setting up the Zeppelin takes just a few minutes: You plug it in and open B&W's Connect app to get the speaker on your home Wi-Fi network. That's it. From there you can either keep it wireless or plug it into your router for an even more solid connection. If you can do the latter, it's really the way to go. It's also worth noting that there's no internal battery, so this isn't a portable speaker, and it needs to remain plugged in to work.

More from Bloomberg.com: Man Who Called China's Boom and Bust Says Use This Rally to Sell

Sound quality is every bit as good as the $700 price tag would have you hope. In a medium-size living room, sound coverage was even and I didn't get any strange parallax as I walked around. Bass is strong without being boomy or overwhelming, mids are clean and precise, and the high notes have that slight shimmer that keeps them from being shrill. At low volumes the sound is pleasant and even, but as you turn the Zeppelin Wireless up, a ton of space seems to open up between instruments and little things such as breathing and reverb come out from behind the more prominent sounds. Leonard Cohen's voice sounded as gravely as ever, I felt like I could hear Lang Lang's fingers moving against piano keys, and I'm pretty sure Diplo did a live set in my apartment the other night.

One of my favorite extra features is a simple one: a simple 3.5 mm audio jack on the back. This means you can hard-wire it to your TV, record player, or another input. The Zeppelin is billed as an all-in-one, and for those of us living in smaller spaces, it really can do almost everything you need. While I can get away with a single input for TV and the wireless capabilities, there are definitely hi-fi nerds who will wish there were a few more ports, and I don't blame them. Also, while the rubber base does a pretty good job isolating the speaker from whatever it's sitting on, differences in the amount of bass and reverb are immediately noticeable if you move it between surfaces.

More from Bloomberg.com: Barry Diller Says He'll Leave the Country If Donald Trump Wins the White House

There's no question that the Zeppelin Wireless, at $700, is expensive for an all-in-one wireless speaker. Plenty of great Bluetooth options are available for around $200, and a number of Airplay options can be had for less than $500. If you're the kind of person who mostly puts music on for some background noise or while you're vacuuming, buy the Beats Pill+ or Logitech UE Boom 2 and save your money. You won't notice anything's missing.

But if you're the sort of person who notices when cymbals and synths don't have enough separation between them or when a voice fades out a fraction of a second before it should, the Zeppelin Wireless won't disappoint. Since it's coming from Bowers & Wilkins, I can't say I'm surprised.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Bowers & Wilkins’s New Blimp Speaker Will Impress Picky Hi-Fi Nerds on bloomberg.com