Apple's iPhone 6S just went on sale three days ago, but rumors about what we might see in the next model have already started to circulate.

A new report says Apple is planning to make the iPhone 7 resistant to water.

The rumor originated on the Chinese social network Weibo, where an account called "Daren mobile phone chip" shared a few details about the next iPhone's design.

The account seems to have a reputation for leaking news about the technology industry, as it has been cited in a few Chinese blogs in the past. The Japanese Apple blog Makotakara was the first to pick up on the new posts.

Apple is also reportedly planning to use a new material for the iPhone's casing. The iPhone 6S features an even stronger type of aluminum than the kind Apple has used on its previous iPhones, but the company is reportedly considering a new material altogether. It's unclear what that material will be, but the Weibo post says the iPhone 6S will be the last iPhone to use a metal casing. Apple has already developed a prototype version of the next iPhone, according to the post.

It's not surprising to learn that Apple may be considering a new iPhone design that's resistant to water. Many of Apple's competitors have released water-resistant Android phones, such as the Samsung Galaxy S5 and Sony Xperia Z3.

Apple has tested water-resistant gadgets in the past, according to a former Apple employee. But while this person worked at Apple the technology wasn't "100%" waterproof, so Apple didn't publicize it.

Tests have suggested that the iPhone 6S is water-resistant, though Apple doesn't advertise it. YouTube tech reviewer Zach Straley recently tested both of Apple's newest iPhones and found that they lasted for an hour underwater without enduring significant damage.

It's too soon to know what Apple is planning for the next iPhone, but we're expecting to see a higher-quality camera as well. As of last month, Apple was ordering six-element lenses for a future iPhone to be released after the iPhone 6S, a source in Apple's supply chain previously told Business Insider. Apple's current iPhones have five-element-lens cameras.

Regardless of whether these claims are true, it's important to keep in mind that Apple's plans could change before the next iPhone is actually released.

NOW WATCH: Animated map reveals the 550,000 miles of cable hidden under the ocean that power the internet