Updates for Apple: New iPhones, iPad Pro, and watchOS 2

(Continued from Prior Part)

iOS 9 for Apple iPads

In the last part of the series, we learned about Apple’s (AAPL) new iPad Pro with a larger display. We also learned about the new accessories, Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard, that enhance and expand the capabilities of the iPad Pro.

According to the new iOS 9 update, Apple has significantly boosted the multitasking capabilities of select models of iPads. These multitasking capabilities include Slide Over, Split View, and Picture-in-Picture.

According to Apple, “Slide Over lets you simultaneously work in a second app without leaving the one you’re in and easily switch between your apps.” The company explained that “Split View allows you to view and interact with two apps at the same time, side by side, and resize your view to prioritize one app over another.” Also, “Picture-in-Picture lets you continue a video or FaceTime® call while using your favorite apps.”

Multitasking options in select iPads to cater to businesses

The new multitasking options for select iPads, including iPad Pro, should add more weight to Apple’s positioning in the tablet space for businesses. The options should also more weight when products are running on Google’s (GOOG) Android and Microsoft (MSFT) Windows, key operating systems in the segment.

According to a report by Good Technology, in the tablet space for businesses, the share of iOS in activations contracted from 81% in 1Q15 to 64% in 2Q15. However, according to the report, the share of Windows as well as Android in this category continued to grow on a sequential basis in 2Q15.

Windows and Android had shares of 4% and 15%, respectively, in this market during 1Q15. In 2Q15, Windows and Android had shares of 11% and 25%, respectively, in this market.

Please note that this report excluded Blackberry (BBRY) when calculating different metrics. Also, these mobility insights for businesses are based on data from more than 6,200 clients of Good Technology.

According to Good Technology, these clients span 189 countries, “including 100 percent of the FORTUNE® 100 commercial banks, aerospace and defense firms and more than half of the FORTUNE 100 companies.”

Also, according to Apple, company citing findings from a report by IDC (International Data Corporation), Good Technology was the second-largest player, globally by revenue, in the EMM (enterprise mobility management) software space in 2014.

You can take a diversified exposure to Apple by investing in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY). SPY held ~3.7% in Apple on August 31, 2015.

Continue to Next Part

Browse this series on Market Realist: