LOS ANGELES & SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) today announced the Jimmy Kimmel Live! post-show concerts, presented by MasterCard, which will launch on Thursday, October 15, 2015 at 11:35 p.m. CT. Audiences across Yahoo’s network can watch live performances from some of the music industry’s biggest names as they perform at the Jimmy Kimmel Live! Outdoor Stage in Hollywood.

The live performances will kick off with Duran Duran on October 15, following their appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live!. The band recently released their fourteenth studio album “Paper Gods,” which garnered them their highest chart positions around the world for more than twenty-two years. Produced by Nile Rodgers, Mark Ronson, Mr. Hudson and Josh Blair, the band’s highly acclaimed new record includes collaborations with a host of great artists - from Kiesza and John Frusciante, to Jonas Bjerre and Janelle Monáe, who joins them on the first single “Pressure Off,” which is currently climbing the charts.

Additional performances from the Jimmy Kimmel Live! post-show concerts, presented by MasterCard, will include Grammy-Nominated rock band Fall Out Boy’s performance of their current single “Irresistible” and more.

As part of MasterCard’s sponsorship of the Jimmy Kimmel Live! post-show concerts on Yahoo, MasterCard cardholders will have the opportunity to gain access to exclusive Jimmy Kimmel Live! experiences by simply making a qualifying donation to Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) at www.priceless.com. Stand Up To Cancer, a program of the Entertainment Industry Foundation, funds innovative cancer research that will get new therapies to patients quickly and save lives now. With the donation, MasterCard cardholders will support ground-breaking cancer research and have the chance to attend green room experiences and private concerts, hosted at the Jimmy Kimmel Live! Outdoor Stage at the historic El Capitan Theater in Hollywood, CA.

The new Jimmy Kimmel Live! post-show concerts, presented by MasterCard, further Yahoo’s commitment as the ultimate destination for online live music and events. Yahoo is in the second year of programming with Live Nation to live stream concerts throughout the year, in which the first year saw 135 million streams across 225 markets internationally. Furthermore, Yahoo will be exclusively delivering the first-ever live stream of an NFL game to a global audience across devices and for free with the NFL’s International Series game in London, between the Buffalo Bills and Jacksonville Jaguars on October 25. Other live event programs include Yahoo News Live, SuperFan Live on Yahoo TV and partnerships with iHeartMedia, the Television Academy and Dick Clark Productions. Jimmy Kimmel Live! airs weeknights at 11:35|10:35c on ABC.

About Yahoo

Yahoo is a guide focused on informing, connecting, and entertaining our users. By creating highly personalized experiences for our users, we keep people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the world. In turn, we create value for advertisers by connecting them with the audiences that build their businesses. Yahoo is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, and has offices located throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC) and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. For more information, visit the pressroom (pressroom.yahoo.net) or the Company’s blog (yahoo.tumblr.com).

"JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE" (Weeknights at 11:35|10:35c on ABC)

Jimmy Kimmel serves as host and executive producer of Emmy nominated "Jimmy Kimmel Live," ABC's late-night talk show.

"Jimmy Kimmel Live" is well known for its huge viral video successes with 1.5 billion views on YouTube alone. Some of Kimmel's most popular comedy bits include - Mean Tweets, Lie Witness News, Jimmy's Twerk Fail Prank, Unnecessary Censorship, YouTube Challenge, The Baby Bachelor, Movie: The Movie, Handsome Men's Club, Jimmy Kimmel Lie Detective and music videos like "I (Wanna) Channing All Over Your Tatum" and a Blurred Lines parody with Robin Thicke, Pharrell, Jimmy and his security guard Guillermo.

"Jimmy Kimmel Live" broadcasts from Disney's El Capitan Theater, located on Hollywood Boulevard in the heart of the Walk of Fame. This location gives the show unique character that Jimmy showcases regularly by interacting with the local superheroes parading along the boulevard and challenging tourists outside to participate in live comedy bits.

Jimmy Kimmel and Jill Leiderman serve as executive producers. Jason Schrift, Douglas DeLuca, Erin Irwin, and David Craig serve as co-executive producers. "Jimmy Kimmel Live" is shot live in front of a studio audience and produced by Jackhole Industries in association with ABC Studios. For more info go to jimmykimmellive.com or Facebook.com/jimmykimmellive. You can also follow Jimmy's personal twitter account - @jimmykimmel. #Kimmel

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015006790/en/