Apple's iPhone 6S has only been available since Friday, but a few owners are already experiencing issues with the device.

Some issues include the phone randomly powering off, the home button becoming too hot, and audio distortion in the phone's speakers, according to posts in Apple's support forums. Blog 9to5Mac initially noticed the comments.

Some have said that the new iPhone randomly powers off even when the battery is still full.

Two commenters on the thread specified that the issue happened with a 128GB iPhone 6s, and I've personally experienced the same problem with that same configuration twice.

Another thread describes an issue in which the home button became hot for no apparent reason.

"I have had my phone since Friday, and this morning when I woke up the home button was burning hot and the screen is just black," one commenter called JazzieFay wrote.

A fix for both of those issues seems to be holding down the home button and the power button along the side of the phone.

In another thread, a few users reported an audio quality issue with the iPhone 6S. One commenter known as Craigus91 said that there was a slight crackling/distortion sound coming from the bottom speaker.

A few owners complained about these issues on Twitter too:

Ok so went to sleep last night with my #iPhone6s on but locked. Woke up and it had turned off and wouldn't turn back on. Hard reset to fix 😖 — Jed Blaize Hutton (@jedhutton) September 29, 2015

cool new feature with the iPhone 6s where it shuts off and doesn't turn back on (((((((((((((((: — jessi (@jessi_evans6) September 29, 2015

Happened to me yesterday: "My iPhone 6s home button is really hot and the ... | Apple Support Communities" https://t.co/bce75alXVi — Eduardo Trujillo (@etcinit) September 30, 2015

iPhone 6s be acting up sometimes. I got one and it basically has its own rules and regulations. It shuts off in my face when it wants to. — ♕des (@melaninormani) June 23, 2015

Last year, when Apple launched the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, a few users reported that the phone would slightly bend after it's been kept in your pants pocket. Although Apple said the issue had only affected nine iPhone owners, the problem attracted a lot of attention on the internet and became known as "Bendgate."

We've reached out to Apple for comment on these issues and will update this story accordingly when we hear back.

NOW WATCH: This Excel trick will save you time and impress your boss