Markets were rolling the dice yesterday, placing bets that the Fed won’t hike interest rates on Thursday. But that risk-on bravado looks to have dissipated a bit this morning.

Of course, the big gains for Wall Street were made on pretty thin volumes, as several have pointed out. That isn’t a huge surprise, as investors stick to the sidelines ahead of one of the Fed’s most important decision-making discussions in years.

Lower volumes “leave the market vulnerable to larger moves, because smaller traders have greater influence,” Jani Ziedins of the CrackedMarket blog points out. And without any great underlying driver for that rally yesterday, it just makes gains all the more fragile ahead of Thursday, he says. More in our call of the day.

As for the Fed, some are pointing out that the central bank is starting to face a very different market from that of a few weeks ago. The VIX VIX, -13.47% registered its lowest close since Aug. 20 yesterday, and is set to break below 20 by next week, notes Michael O’Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading.

“Thus, a few more days of this type of financial market behavior and the Fed will regret not having taken action while it could,” he told investors.

Then again, maybe the Fed’s problems are only beginning. Richard Koo, chief economist at the Nomura Research Institute, told clients in a note that all that easy money from central banks has not reached the real economy, but instead has gone into higher yielding, yet risky assets. And now there’s a threat of a negative loop in which the end of easy money causes market anxiety, possibly threatening a shaky recovery on Main Street.

“We need to consider the possibility of an extended standoff between the Fed, which wants to normalize interest rates and drain excess reserves from the system as soon as possible, and the markets, which are likely to swing wildly in response to statements and actions by the authorities,” he says. More in Business Insider

And if that big move for short-term bonds made your eyes pop out yesterday, then check out our chart of the day, which cites that as another market that may not be so trustworthy.

Key market gauges

Futures on the Dow US:YMU5 and the S&P US:ESU5 are going nowhere after yesterday’s gains. But Europe SXXP, +2.03% is feeling pretty upbeat at least, and Asia SXXP, +2.03% was in rebound mode, with a nearly 5% leap for the Shanghai Composite SHCOMP, +1.28% Well after Tokyo markets closed, Standard & Poor’s cut Japan’s credit rating to A+ from AA, so watch the Nikkei NIK, +2.11% for any reaction tomorrow.

Crude oil US:CLV5 is up nearly 2%, and even gold GCV5, +0.28% is getting a small lift. The dollar BUXX, -0.18% has been pulling back, though.

The quote

“I felt as though the next shot — I knew — the next shot he was just going to shoot me in the head because that was what he was doing.” — Smith Mountain Lake Chamber of Commerce executive director Vicki Gardner talks about surviving an on-air shooting in which two TV journalists died last month.

The call

CrackedMarket’s Ziedins is watching the S&P 500 SPX, +1.66% closely, as he says it’s about to bump up against the upper end of a trading range it has backed off from before. Until that breakout and hold happens, he’s ready to take any profits the market wants to hand out.

S&P500 Daily chart

“The ideal bullish setup will be a knee-jerk selloff on a rate hike, but then the selling quickly exhausts itself and we break through 2,000 resistance. That would be the capitulation bottom of the correction. This reversal could play out over hours or weeks, but it would be a strong sign the market will rally into year-end,” he says.

If the Fed keeps rates at zero, he says this market may find it much harder to pop higher, as it will hardly be a “ringing endorsement of our economy.” Read more here.

The economy

Consumer prices fell 0.1% in August. At 10 a.m. Eastern, the National Association of Home Builders will release its September report. And, of course, the Federal Open Market Committee will sit down to begin its deliberations today. Here’s your handy guide on where every Fed member stands on raising interest rates right now.