Fundamentals



Source: The Motley Fool

This week Apple unveiled the Apple News app [which] does allow advertising, and publishers who sell their own ad space are able to keep 100 percent of their revenue. Apple takes a 30 percent cut of the ad space it sells on its own. Apple News has already made an impression on several big publishers like New York Magazine and The Washington Post, which are both expected to announce their distribution plans on the app on Thursday.

Source: Source: Benzinga Pro



Doubting Apple is OK, but doubting Apple because of obvious statements like “it’s a phone company” or “Apple Watch is garbage” is low brow and misses everything. Friends, this is chess not checkers. Apple is ahead of us (all of us), not behind us.

Source: Apple and Google Are at War to Own the Future.



Next Up: Why Facebook Stock Could Double





There is every reason to believe Apple is going to rise from here in the long-term, and rather substantially. We have been waiting for Tim Cook to put his stamp on Apple’s corporate (outward) culture and we just got it. Apple has become combative, competitive, aggressive, savvy and attacking massive growth in all areas with reckless abandon.It’s long been a media hobby to question Apple. It’s also long been a good way to be dead wrong. Let’s remember these product reviews:Here we go, step-by-step. This is why Apple is going to win, again.Fully 50% of all of Apple’s revenue growth and 61% of the increase in operating income came from China in the company’s current fiscal year. There is a lot of angst surrounding China’s stock market and economy and how it will impact sales of Apple’s iPhones. Here are the reasons not to worry in the long-term and to allow for short-term gyrations to be just that, short-term.1. All three China wireless providers reported their August subscriber numbers.. China Telecom is maintaining a fairly steady pace and China Unicom has seen three months of very strong combined 3G and 4G subscriber growth (Source: Forbes written by Chuck Jones.2. China’s middle class stood at 47 million people in 2010. By 2020, that number is expected to hit 472 million. Yes, that’s right, nearly half a billion more people in the middle class. Here’s that image.The iPhone accounts for about 60% of Apple’s revenue (Source: Statista ), so yeah, it’s a big deal. In calendar Q4 last year, Apple delivered the largest earnings by any company ever, driven by nearly 75 million iPhone sales in the period. There’s no way they can follow that up, right? Actually…T-Mobile CEO John Legere tweeted last night that Apple iPhone 6S pre-orders areAnd we already know what’s going on in China. Friends, Apple is going to blow the roof off of the house again. And whether that gets realized in this quarter, or next quarter, or whatever quarter, the iPhone is nowhere near capacity.Want more evidence? Yahoo Finance just posted this article: Apple’s iPhone sales will break all records this weekend: FoursquareFurther, The Wall St. Journal’s Miriam Gottfried reported on Sep. 10th, 2015 that Apple will begin financing iPhone sales directly to consumers with no carrier-affiliation requirement. All an iPhone user would have to do to switch carriers is get a new SIM card (Source: WSJ ). This could mean more frequent upgrades for iPhone customers.Tim Cook just made a stunning move that is a violent attack on the entire mobile advertising world and. This may be the biggest single change to Apple’s vision since the introduction of the iPod over a decade ago. Google’s mobile advertising is instantaneously in dire straits and further, Google search is now under attack. Here’s a chart of Apple’s revenue (in the blue bars) and net income (in the orange line) for the last 15+ years. That recent spike is from the iPhone 6 rage.Until now, Apple has made money almost exclusively on hardware with all systems running Apple’s operating systems (OSX or iOS). Google, on the other hand, makes money on advertising with nearly $55 billion in ad revenue out of a total of $70 billion. But, 20% of Google’s ad revenue comes from mobile, and nearly all of that comes from. Google is focusing on growing its mobile presence as its competitor Facebook (FB) generates 75% of its revenue from mobile (and Twitter generates 89% of revenue from mobile).Apple released iOS9 and in that operating system users can implement ad-blocking apps that prevent mobile advertisements from appearing in the Safari browser. We can say instantaneously that 20% of Google’s advertising business is now in dire straits. Note that Facebook ads are driven inside the Facebook app, so this is a non-issue for them.Ah, but there’s more… Apple didn’t just set out to kill Google’s mobile revenue, it decided to go ahead and take it for itself. Check this out from Benzinga:And yet one more piece. With websites and ads now living inside the iOS9 ecosystem, search will be done through the iOS search. Yes, Apple has now entered search as well.Apple has instantly become the most powerful mobile advertiser in the world. A week ago, it didn’t even have an advertising arm.September 21st the Wall St. Journal reported: “Apple Inc. is accelerating efforts to build an electric car, designating it internally as a "committed project” and setting a target ship date for 2019, according to people familiar with the matter" (Source: WSJ ).Apple has also stepped into the streaming video fray with Apple TV. Barron’s reported on Global Equities Research’s Trip Chowdhry when he said that the Apple TV platform “provides strong indication” that Apple TV will come with its own software development kit and its own app store, i.e. its own Apple TV ecosystem. For all those concerned about Apple’s future, its heavy reliance on the iPhone and a slowing China, heed the advice we shared three weeks ago: