The Federal Reserve postponed kicking off its rate hike campaign, choosing to hold rates steady, with the central bank’s rate path forecast implying that liftoff remains a probability this year. While there was no rate increase at the September meeting, we haven’t altered our view that there will be one 25 basis point rate increase this year with an additional raise of 50 to 75 basis points in 2016 before the Fed adjourns for the 2016 U.S. presidential election. We anticipate that the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield will continue to trade in a range between 2 and 2.25 percent until the Fed signals that it will increase the policy rate.

What is paramount in this decision to postpone a rate increase, and embedded in the statement, is that the Fed has gone global and elevated the importance of global financial and economic conditions, which have tightened during the past six weeks. Thus, the balance of risk going forward is a slower path of rate increases than the Fed had been projecting even given the improvement in the U.S. economy. When the time comes for rate increases, whether it be later this year or early next, the Fed will probably face another vigorous challenge from market participants not to do so based on an external sector which may be many months away from improvement. If the Fed does fall behind the curve, which it may now be already, it will have done so on its own under very flimsy evidence that turmoil in the external sector is affecting the domestic economy.

The decision to hold is somewhat at odds with the upgrade in the FOMC’s summary of economic projections, growth and unemployment rate forecasts. The estimate of the unemployment rate implies the labor market is at full employment and will continue to tighten next year. While the Fed upgraded its 2015 growth forecast, it reduced its 2016 growth estimate to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent, leaving the 2016 estimate at 2.3 percent unchanged. The long-term growth estimate remained static at 2 percent. The Fed now anticipates reaching its inflation target sometime in early 2018.

Meanwhile, the Fed’s dot plots signal that the rate hike campaign, when it commences, will evolve in a gradual and orderly fashion that will occur over a period of years. In our estimation the Fed forecast of the policy rate to reach 250 basis points by the end of 2017 is a bit too optimistic given demographic, technological and external headwinds. About 200 basis points, or slightly less, would appear to be more realistic given the challenges outlined in the FOMC statement.

While we do not in any way believe that this is a serious policy mistake – liftoff at the September meeting was always a coin flip – there is no evidence of credit risk, counterparty risk or funding stress in U.S. related to the turmoil in global financial markets caused by the growth slowdown in China or the eurozone sovereign debt crisis.

We have made the case that recent volatility in global asset markets does not represent a “Global Lehman Moment,” and lack of movement by the Fed today likely increases the level of investor uncertainty regarding the linkage between the external sector and the path of monetary policy. The onset of much stronger growth in the U.S. economy and a tightening labor market will help offset falling demand for exports from emerging markets and developing economies, as well as aggressive monetary policy put in place by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, should provide a global economic and liquidity buffer as the Fed embarks on its rate hike campaign later this year or early next.