Getty Images

“As women make strides in the workplace, working fathers are forced to deal with stigma, isolation and a scarcity of good-paying part-time jobs when they cut hours at work to shoulder more caregiving duties at home.” — The Wall Street Journal

The heavens just opened up and belched out a truth: Men in business have it bad.

You got that? The caliber of the disaster that is life as a man in the corporate world may know no bounds. I mean, men only make a dollar for every 78 cents made by a woman. Why — oh, why — can’t that be higher?

Until men are making two bucks to that 78 cents, any talk of equality is merely lip service. My fellow men, we live in an Age of Privation.

If you are not a man, you might, to be certain, look around your office and think there is something a touch faulty to this woe-is-we logic. After all, pretty much the next women to rise on Wall Street or Silicon Valley with her dignity intact will be the first.

But put a ribbon on this thought: You are wrong!

Let me mansplain:

Men, who have run history and driven humanity into a ditch, obviously need more benefits for their toil. All but the most uninformed observer of history can see that. We have grown tired of being viewed in that one setting of world leader, warmonger and financial scoundrel. We want to go to Gymboree, too.

Now who could argue with logic like that?

Then again, few take parental leave, even when it’s available.

Don’t miss: Americans take only half of the vacation earned — and the Chinese take even less

I remember once reading a survey that the average American male spent seven minutes a day with each child. That is an outrage. I have three children and do not believe I have those 21 minutes to spare.

And, at least anecdotally, there is no creature more common in the corner office than those who say they are retiring to spend time with their families and don’t even hang around long enough to meet Gymbo, Gymboree’s clown mascot, who, it has to be said, seems like a cross between Chucky from “Child’s Play” and its sequels and John Wayne Gacy. (Incidentally, when my daughter was little, I took off a day to take her to Gymboree. I met Gymbo and was right back at work the next day.)

In the final estimation, little is uglier than the culture wars. Except, perhaps, when the culture wars hit corporate America. And hit they have — with the news that Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s YHOO, +1.77% chief executive officer, is pregnant and will once again take off roughly enough leave to have a cup of coffee, then come back to work. It did not take long for an NYU Stern School of Business professor to suggest that if she weren’t pregnant, Mayer would “be out of a job within six months” and her company should be “euthanized.”

So roll the corporate culture wars.

Recently, Netflix NFLX, -0.65% and Microsoft MSFT, +1.76% followed Facebook FB, +2.64% in offering extra shore leave for new dads. But it’s unclear if anyone will take advantage.

After the vitriol greeting Mayer’s announcement, who can blame dads for staying at work?

Besides, those who “shoulder more caregiving duties,” as a Wall Street Journal story put it, eventually learn that the likes of Gymbo are out there, lurking.

More from MarketWatch