Apple Inc.’s launch Wednesday of its new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus went largely as expected, with some new features added to existing Apple products. One of the most interesting bits of news was not actually a technology but a new way of selling the iPhone, wwhich received two very interesting upgrades but was left out of the new Apple TV.

Here are four important takeaways from Wednesday’s unveiling:

1) Leasing program for the iPhone in the U.S.: As more carriers move away from two-year, subsidized phone contracts, Apple AAPL, +1.53% wants to make it easier to upgrade and change out your phone. Users can now upgrade their iPhones every year by agreeing to a monthly payment plan for an unlocked phone, available exclusively at Apple’s retail stores. Akin to car leasing, this option for consumers would make phones even more disposable, and puts Apple in control of its relationship with the consumer by cutting out the middle man currently charging those monthly fees — wireless carriers.

2) The iPad Pro: A larger, enterprise-focused tablet was expected by most Apple watchers, but pricing was seen as a bit high for the higher-end models. The iPad Pro, with its large 12.9-inch screen, starts at $799 in the U.S. for the 32-gigabyte model; adding a stylus known as the Apple Pencil and a keyboard cover pushes that baseline price to nearly $1,000. It is worth noting that the 12-inch, 64-gigabyte version of the Microsoft Corp. MSFT, +1.76% Surface 3.0 also starts at $799. Apple even trotted Microsoft execs on stage to demonstrate a version of Microsoft Office for the iPad Pro in a serious attempt to woo more corporate users. Will a larger, more expensive and “immersive” screen, plus features like the keyboard and stylus that are already available on the Microsoft Surface, help Apple convince corporate users to buy an iPad Pro instead of a notebook or Surface?

3) A new Apple TV: Apple’s streaming device got a major upgrade that includes a new operating system, a tiny remote, video game capabilities and the ability to ask Siri to find specific content. But why did Apple feel it needed to create a very tiny remote instead of making these functions part of the new iPhone 6s and 6 Plus, much as Google Inc. GOOG, +1.43% has done with the Chromecast. Apple is reportedly working on developing its own content to compete with Netflix and Amazon, but for now, it is still lacks major broadcast network deals. Apple will likely continue to be a small part of the TV market.

4) 3D Touch and Live Photos: The two coolest features of the new iPhone models deal with touch technology. The 3D Touch feature brings a new way to navigate content on a mobile device similar to hovering or holding down a mouse click on a PC. Live Photo captures 1.5 seconds of action before and after you snap a photo and shows a video-like animation of that time when you press down on a photo.

As expected, Apple also unveiled upgrades in iPhone memory, battery life, and processing power. Will these upgrades, plus new metallic finishes such as rose gold, be enough to attract consumers who have yet to upgrade to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus? Wall Street is counting on this upgrade of iPhones to continue Apple’s steady stream of revenue, as iPhones account for the bulk of Apple sales. But some analysts have already been preparing for a slight decline in annual iPhone unit shipments in 2016.

It’s not clear whether the hardware improvements announced Wednesday are enough to push those waiting to get new phones over to the iterative iPhone 6S, or if they will wait for the next model. The biggest change that could affect Apple’s sales appears to be the plan to make it easier for consumers to make the upgrade decision with a monthly pricing plan.

More from MarketWatch