Fundamentals

The Model S was a platform to prove that Tesla was for real. The Model X will be a platform to demonstrate whether the auto industry is moving toward the car of the future.

Source: Source: Business Insider

The skeptics of and believers in Tesla have created a whirlwind of hyperbole and angst the likes of which we haven’t seen in decades. Tesla is either the revolutionary creator of electric cars that will push it to the forefront of a multi trillion dollar industry and forever transform the world, or it’s a flop, haemorrhaging impossible amounts of cash flow and surviving only on government subsidies so large that they match the company’s total revenue. These are the two sides andHowever, what is not disputed is that Tesla’s launch of its Model X (scheduled for September 29th, 2015), which will be its second car, is likely the single most important moment for the firm’s existence moving forward. Tesla has shown the world, without question, that it can deliver an electric car that performs so far beyond anything we have ever seen, people literally don’t understand it. In fact, Consumer Reportsbecause the highest end Model S Tesla was so good that it broke it (Source: Business Insider ).The company has been manufacturing at 100% capacity for over a year, with a backlog proving that at the very least, it can sell a luxury race car cloaked as an electric vehicle. Here’s the company’s revenue (TTM) in the blue bars and the company’s free cash flow in the orange line.Revenue (the bars) has been a bonanza, up 52% year-over-year and over 200% over the last two-years. Levered free cash flow (the orange line) has been equally a bonanza. Tesla showed negative $1.2 billion in free cash flow in the last year, down from -$156 million just one-year ago. The company has received billions in government subsidies to keep running and those numbers aren’t refelcted in the free cash flow.What NowThe future “enterprise changing” event for TSLA is the opening of its massive manufacturing facility, aptly named the “Giga-factory” scheduled for 2020. Now read these numbers carefully:That’s right, the company wants to increase unit sales 1,000% in four years. That large scale volume will not come from the luxury Model S (the sports car), but from a yet to be created Model 3, which will be priced in the $30,000 range for broad market appeal. But we’re going to know if that 500,000 number is an absurdity or an actual reality much sooner than the release of the Model 3, and here’s why:If Tesla is going to be a true colossal success as Elon Musk aims to be, the second step after selling one successful vehicle on a limited scale, is to sell avehicle on ascale. There is a legitimate argument that Tesla’s Model S (the sports car) is simply a luxury item that has found demand for a small group of people during an economic boom where the top 1% have reaped all the benefits. That makes it less about Tesla as an enterprise and more about a generic luxury item.The argument that the Model S is a luxury phenomenon rather than a “car” can be laid to rest with the release of the Model X. Beyond the obvious, that the Model X is now a second product, it is a bridge to the Model 3. In order for Tesla to even get to the Model 3, Tesla must drive more cash to the company with a higher volume product. The Model X is an SUV crossover, easily the most popular trend in new cars today. As Business Insider puts it so aptly:The Model X is Tesla’s ultimate test for broader market appeal (although it’s still a $65,000 car) and greater innovation that is coming to cars – specifically, self-driving capabilities and connectedness. That will put it against the likes of Apple (AAPL) and Google (GOOG, GOOGL). Further, a successful Model X will address a reasonable concern which is simply, “can Tesla create and engineer another successful design?”This is the moment for Tesla. The arguments will get louder, but we will finally start to get answers rather than rhetoric.