Fundamentals

[Bank of America is] convinced of growth that measures fully 200 fold in just seven years. By the year 2022, the mobile payments growth will reach a combined total of around $3 trillion.

Source: Source: Investor Place

The use of NFC for mobile payments also opens the door to selling more “secure element” chips used to safeguard vital credentials like account numbers.



“For there to be a full payment solution there needs to be not only an NFC radio but also a secure element chip, which obviously increases the dollar content opportunity for chipmakers like NXP, but also provides a more robust and secure solutions for the mobile payments industry”.

Source: Source: Investor Place

“If you look at the total solution [for IoT], it’s the sensing part, the sensors themselves, which we think has become basically a commodity business, and so we see no reason to participate there. But then you also have to have the computing, the connectivity features, and the security. Well, we had the security and the connectivity parts, but we didn’t have all we needed on the microcontroller side, because we were in areas that were very narrow.”

Source: Source: Barron’s

Next Up: Apple Will Stun the World Again. Period

NXP Semiconductor (NXPI) is truly Apple’s ‘Secret Weapon,’ and is inside the guts of the iPhone, Apple Pay, the Apple Watch and likely the Apple Car. Apple’s recent launch of Apple Pay in its new iPhones and smartwatch are the seal of approval that a technology called “near-field communication” (aka NFC) needed to become as commonplace as wifi, Bluetooth and GPS (Source: Reuters ).This “NFC technology” enables smartphones to communicate wirelessly with other devices such as point-of-sale terminals by holding them together. NXPI dominates the market for NFC chips with a 59% market share. NXPI CEO Rick Clemmer told Barron’s that Qualcomm (QCOM) had announced that they would get out of the business of making their own chips for “near-field communications,” and would instead partner with NXP. That’s a huge win. Further, in the latest quarter,The largest banks are not only aware, but in bold support of the shift to mobile payment. To the extent that a mobile platform like Apple’s increases payment volumes, the banks are extatic. Almost every major bank inis now an explict partner to Apple Pay and most have happily agreed to cut transcation costs.NXP also works with Andorid and “more than three quarters of Android users (78%) would use a service similar to Apple Pay if it became available to them, a survey conducted by Helixion has found” (Source: Helixion ). The bottom line is, people will no longer have their wallet in one hand, and their phone in the other and that means an absolutely enormous industry is forming. It also means cash as payment method will all but disappear.NFC chips are expected to be inthis year, including Apple’s iPhone, Apple Watch and the ever expanding number of Android gadgets according to Gartner analyst Mark Hung.As well as phones, NFC technology is being built into point-of-sale devices (as we discussed with Apple Pay), video game consoles and medical tools., according to market research firm IHS iSuppli (Source: Reuters ).Beyond wearables, smartphones and mobile pay, NXPI also has its hands in driverless vehicles, a market segment now explitly pursued by Apple, Google and Tesla. Morgan Stanley recently reported that it expects self-driving cars to roll out to the mainstream by 2018. We note that the “self parking” Lexus was already released in 2006 and since then several other vehicles have the same or similar functionality. In total, The Motely Fool presents evidence that the self-driving car industry, as it matures, could hit $19 trillion. That would be about 40x the size of the Internet. It’s likely that automotive will be the crown jewel of NXPI.But it’s the security realm that has NXPI CEO Rick Clemmer even more excited.The company is at the heart of the Internet of Things (IoT) mega-trend. NXPI is set to merge with Freescale Semiconductor and the combined entity will be the world’s fourth biggest independent chip company.Rick Clemmer has long claimed “In an IoT world, security will play a key role” because all these connected things will be even more prone to hacking and theft and such, and they increasingly carry personal data. “You need the ruggedized security of a hardened secure element” Source: Barron’s He went further to say explain the power of the Freescale merger:With Freescale, NXP will be the top vendor of general-purpose microcontrollers. Keep in mind, security goes well beyond mobile payments, and into the realm of say, Apple’s iPhone (or Samsung’s Galaxy S), which holds personal credentials, and also NXPI’s work on e-passports. Year-over-year revenue growth for NXP was driven primarily by 39% higher sales of chips destined for secure connected devices (Source: The Motley Fool ).