View photo .

Oppenheimer just released its 35 top stock ideas for October and November. Here’s a rundown of the full list with analyst commentary included.

1. Turtle Beach Corp (NASDAQ: HEAR)

Analyst Sean McGowan sees two drivers of the stock: the “resurgence in video games” and the rollout of “directed audio” technology HyperSound.

2. Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. (NASDAQ: ULTA

Analyst Rupesh Parikh believes the company is capable of sustaining up to +7.0 percent comps and has “the potential to expand to more than 1,200 units over time.”

3. Home Depot Inc (NYSE: HD

Analyst Brian Nagel sees the company as “well positioned to capitalize upon improving demand trends in the home improvement sector.”

4. Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI

Analyst Brian Bittner forecasts “significant upside to Street’s EPS through ’17.”

5. Coach Inc (NYSE: COH

Analyst Anna Andreeva believes “COH is playing better offense, despite moderation in growth of [the] overall handbag category.”

6. Oneok Partners LP (NYSE: OKS

Analyst Bernard Colson believes “the current distribution is sustainable despite coverage ratio less than 1x.”

7. HollyFrontier Corp (NYSE: HFC

Analyst Fadel Gheit believes that the company’s “combination of refinery complexity, crude flexibility and growth markets gives HFC strong competitive advantages.”

Related Link: Oppenheimer Now Sees Likelihood Of China Separation At Yum! "Very High"

8. Parsley Energy Inc (NYSE: PE

Analyst Robert DuBoff feels the stock “should trade at a premium to the E&P universe given its sizable drilling inventory and growth trajectory.”

9. Halliburton Company (NYSE: HAL

Analyst James Schumm touts the company’s “track record of earning superior returns on capital and creating shareholder value.”

10. Citigroup Inc (NYSE: C

Analyst Chris Kotowski predicts that “earnings should grow above industry averages” as Citi Holdings is wound down.

11. Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS

Analyst Ben Chittenden pointed out that the stock is “trading at less than 10x 2016 consensus EPS, which equates to a 62 percent relative multiple to the S&P 500.”

12. Highwoods Properties Inc (NYSE: HIW

Analyst Steve Manaker believes “the market is underestimating HIW’s growth potential as its financial results should appreciate above expectations from portfolio expansion and improving market fundamentals.”

13. Cellectis SA (ADR) (NASDAQ: CLLS

Analyst Christopher Marai anticipates “preliminary positive results will show [the] value of CLLS’s gene-editing technology and well-funded best-in-class CAR-T platform.”

14. Relypsa Inc (NASDAQ: RLYP

Analyst Ling Wang noted that the company’s pipeline is “substantially de-risked as lead asset Patiromer has achieved significant clinical validation.”

15. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (ADR) (NYSE: TEVA

Analyst Akiva Felt feels “TEVA is emerging as a turnaround story fueled by business development opportunities that mesh well with the company’s existing strengths.”

16. Cerner Corporation (NASDAQ: CERN

Analyst Mohan Naidu sees the company “strengthening its market share position with consistent growth in new footprint and add-on sales.”

17. Community Health Systems (NYSE: CYH

Analyst Michael Wiederhorn sees the company as “a well-run company, with high-quality markets and a long-standing track record of recognizing gains from the acquisition market.”

18. Medtronic PLC (NYSE: MDT

Analyst Steven Lichtman believes the company’s acquisition of Covidien “provides synergy opportunities and increased US free cash flow.”

19. KemPharm Inc (NASDAQ: KMPH

Analyst Rohit Vanjani believes KP201/APAP will gain FDA acceptance for the treatment of acute to moderately severe pain “sometime in the mid-2016 timeframe, with a potential launch in 2017.”

20. Proto Labs Inc (NYSE: PRLB

Analyst Holden Lewis praised the company’s “truly differentiated business model that enables it to tap the secular growth of rapid prototyping and generate strong margins and cash flow.”

21. Mobile Mini Inc (NASDAQ: MINI

Analyst Scott Schneeberger sees the company “positioned to leverage gradually increasing economic and non-residential construction activity.”

22. SunPower Corporation (NASDAQ: SPWR

Analyst Colin Rusch views the company as “well-positioned to maintain its status as a pioneering solar platform.”

23. PowerSecure International, Inc. (NYSE: POWR

Analyst Noah Kaye sees the stock as a “diversified play on improving the efficiency of electricity production, distribution and consumption.”

24. Carlisle Companies, Inc. (NYSE: CSL

Analyst Jim Giannakouros sees “a continuance of margin and returns improvement going forward.”

Related Link: Oppenheimer Previews United Rental Earnings

25. Honeywell International Inc. (NYSE: HON

Analyst Christopher Glynn sees a “sold mix of secular drivers” and “above-average multi-year revenue opportunities.”

26. Scholastic Corp (NASDAQ: SCHL

Analyst Ian Zaffino sees “a cash-rich balance sheet, valuable real estate assets, and a strong and stable FCF profile.”

27. Xura Inc (NASDAQ: MESG

Analyst Shaul Eyal believes the acquisition of Acision and the Tech Mahindra agreement “position Xura for improved profitability.”

28. Ruckus Wireless Inc (NYSE: RKUS

Analyst Ittai Kidron sees “a strong growth outlook for Ruckus and EPS expansion.”

29. Apple Inc. (NASDAQ: AAPL

Analyst Andrew Uerkwitz sees “good opportunities for Apple to gain market share in both developed and emerging markets.”

30. Visa Inc (NYSE: V

Analyst Glenn Greene is “highly attracted to Visa’s powerful brand, its vast global acceptance network and its strong business model.”

31. Incontact Inc (NASDAQ: SAAS

Analyst Brian Schwartz calls the company “a leading pure play contact center-as-a-service supplier currently disrupting the contact center software market.”

32. Skyworks Solutions Inc (NASDAQ: SWKS

Analyst Rick Schafer believes the company is “rapidly transforming into a diversified analog semiconductor company enabling global connectivity and the Internet of Things.”

33. AT&T Inc. (NYSE: T

Analyst Timothy Horan believes the company has “the strongest balance sheet in the industry and an attractive dividend yield.”

34. Wix.Com Ltd (NASDAQ: WIX

Analyst Jason Helfstein forecasts “43 percent subscriber growth and 54 percent revenue growth from 2013 to 2016.”

35. Priceline Group Inc (NASDAQ: PCLN

Analyst Jed Kelly likes the company’s “superior business execution, strong presence in international markets [...] and above-industry growth prospects.”

Disclosure: The author owns shares of Halliburton.

Image Credit: Public Domain

See more from Benzinga

© 2015 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.