Apple AAPL has yet again successfully cushioned itself amid declining PC shipments in the third quarter of 2015.

Per the research firms IDC and Gartner, worldwide PC shipments declined 10.8% and 7.7%, respectively. But according to both, Apple (and a few other top companies) fared reasonably well despite the dismal market scenario.

Per IDC, the companies that have done better than the global market are Lenovo LNVGY, Hewlett-Packard Company HPQ or H-P, Dell and Apple, in the said order. However the decline in shipments of Apple devices (3.4%) was significantly lower than those of Lenovo (4.9%) and H-P (5.5%), while being slightly higher than that of Dell (2.9%).

Notably, this is the first time, Apple has made it to the top four companies in the PC market. In the year-ago quarter, Apple held the fifth position with a global market share of 6.3%. This time around, though its revenues have declined, Apple’s market share has increased to 7.5%.

This quarter has been particularly appalling for most companies owing to two key factors – the strengthening U.S. dollar, which made the devices more expensive in many regions, and Microsoft’s MSFT free upgrade program for Windows 10, which reduced the need to purchase new PCs.

However, the Windows 10 upgrade had obviously no negative impact on Apple’s business. Apple witnessed strong growth in demand for PCs in regions like the U.S. and China, according to Gartner.

As per IDC estimates, Apple PC shipments in the U.S. grew about 1.6% year over year in the quarter, in contrast to market decline of 0.7%. Lenovo and H-P also performed well in the U.S.

Both IDC and Gartner expect PC demand to pick up going ahead as demand for tablets dwindles and new technologies like 4K video and virtual reality reinvigorate demand for new PCs.

As IDC puts it “while PC shipments will be hampered in the short run by the availability of a free upgrade to Windows 10, the improved PC experience across user segments should drive longer-term demand for new PC hardware that is expected to help stabilize the market in 2016 and beyond.”

We believe that though the PC market is likely to remain weak in the near term, Apple has positioned itself well. This Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) company derives over 16% of its total revenue from Mac sales (total revenue was approximately $182.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2014).

The company is expected to launch its 4K video-supporting 21.5" iMac in a week’s time.

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report >>

Information Technology

Finance Trading

Apple

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report